# Routledge Handbook of the Chinese Communist Party

[Image: Missing image]

Willy Wo-Lap Lam

# The CCP's exploitation of Confucianism and Legalism

Publication details
https://www.routledgehandbooks.com/doi/10.4324/9781315543918.ch3
Delia Lin
Published online on: 21 Aug 2017

How to cite :- Delia Lin. 21 Aug 2017, The CCP's exploitation of Confucianism and Legalism from: Routledge Handbook of
the Chinese Communist Party Routledge Accessed on: 29 Mar 2021
https://www.routledgehandbooks.com/doi/10.4324/9781315543918.ch3

# PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR DOCUMENT

Full terms and conditions of use: https://www.routledgehandbooks.com/legal-notices/terms

This Document PDF may be used for research, teaching and private study purposes. Any substantial or systematic
reproductions, re-distribution, re-selling, loan or sub-licensing, systematic supply or distribution in any form to
anyone is expressly forbidden.

The publisher does not give any warranty express or implied or make any representation that the contents will be
complete or accurate or up to date. The publisher shall not be liable for an loss, actions, claims, proceedings, demand
or costs or damages whatsoever or howsoever caused arising directly or indirectly in connection with or arising out of
the use of this material.

# THE CCP'S EXPLOITATION OF CONFUCIANISM AND LEGALISM

Delia Lin

# Introduction

Early Chinese Communist Party (CCP) founders once deemed traditional political philosophies such as Confucianism and
Legalism as inappropriate for building a modern, democratic China. Under Mao Zedong, Confucianism was first extolled and
then it gradually became an object of condemnation to be purged from society. Since the 1980s Confucian studies and
ceremonies began to revive, and today's CCP has taken one step further to seek to implant Confucianism into its official
ideology, Marxism. How and why are traditional philosophies such as Confucianism and Legalism playing an unprecedentedly
significant role in shaping the ideological landscape of China today? This chapter analyses from a political
philosophical perspective the need and tactics of the CCP's exploitation of Confucianism and Legalism. It argues that in
Mao's era traditional political philosophies were used as ammunition in the ideological battlefield, and that this
pattern is being repeated by President Xi Jinping today. Under the Xi regime, Confucianism and Legalism have become
particularly important for two reasons. First, these traditional philosophies are capable of offering a shared fund of
political ideas and principles that could justify not only highly centralized authoritarian rule but also Xi's dual
rhetoric of "rule by virtue" and "governing the nation in accordance with law." Second, by tapping into these cultural
and philosophical roots, the CCP is not only able to legitimize its leadership and governing principles but also claim
"cultural self-confidence" in formulating ideologies that are separate from the kind of political liberalism that has
dominated Western society. The revival of Confucianism under Xi therefore should be seen as a top-down, conscious and
purposeful process of Sinicizing Marxism so as to buttress the party's cultural and ideological legitimacy.

# Confucius: Saint or Satan?

The relationship between the CCP and Confucius has been a complex one. Confucian studies (ruxue 儒学) had been the state
dogma for over two millennia since the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han dynasty (156 BC–87 BC), hence the central role
Confucianism plays in Chinese culture and politics. It is highly likely that as a person of wisdom and discipline,
Confucius himself was already proclaimed "saint" by people of his time (Zhou 2010). Han Fei Zi, founder of Legalist
political philosophy, who was born around 270 years later than Confucius, referred to Confucius as a "Saint" (Han Fei Zi, Chapter 49). The "sainthood" of Confucius and his ideas had continued throughout the
dynasties, but for the first time was challenged by activists and scholars through the early Republican Era including the initial founders of the CCP. New Youth, the magazine established in 1915 by Chen Duxiu, an early CCP leader, became
a prime platform where traditional ideas especially Confucianism were critiqued. In 1916 Chen Duxiu published his
well-known article "Our Last Awareness" in which he argued that Confucian ethics based on three cardinal ethos (san gang
三纲) was geared toward creating a hierarchical system and that it was incompatible with the principles of freedom,
equality and independence required for a constitutional republic (Chen 1916). The same issue of New Youth published the
first half of the two-part "Critique of Confucius" by Yi Baisha, arguably the very first article in modern China devoted
to a critique of Confucianism. In the article Yi (1916) argues that while Confucius has been exploited as a puppet by
politicians and emperors over dynasties, such exploitation can be attributed to four inherent weaknesses within
Confucianism itself. First, the Confucian reverence for those in power creates political dictatorship that fails to pose
limits on how power is exercised. Second, Confucian teaching easily leads to dictatorship of ideas as questioning the
status quo is not permitted. Third, unlike Mo Zi or Han Fei Zi, Confucius did not have consistent moral or philosophical
principles. Confucian teaching, much of which emphasized the suitability to the current situation (shi 时), was saturated
with contradictory ideas and beliefs. That is why Confucianism can be used and reinterpreted to suit various purposes.
Fourth, the Confucian focus on nurturing officials who are capable and loyal servants of the emperor while neglecting
the concerns and aspirations of ordinary folks makes people despite the poor and lower classes. These early
revolutionaries were well versed in the Confucian canon. Their negative appraisal of Confucianism should be seen from
two perspectives. One is that in their quest to build a new, democratic, constitutional republic of China they saw the
limitations of Confucianism regarding the cultivation of freedom, equality and independence, which they believed to be
prerequisites for a modern republic. They faulted Confucianism for its advocacy of obedience and hierarchy as well as
its tendency to nurture political and intellectual dictatorship. Second, the critique was necessary to resist the
revival of monarchy promoted by warlord Yuan Shikai (1859–1916) and conservative thinker Kang Youwei (1858–1927), who
had used Confucianism as an ideological rationale for reviving the monarchy after Dr. Sun Yat-sen's 1911 Republican Revolution.

It can be argued that early critiques of Confucianism by revolutionaries who had fallen under the sway of Western ideas
about democracy, civil liberties and science were motivated by an active, genuine dialogue with their own cultural and
philosophical heritage. These unorthodox reassessments were generally balanced and analytical; they also included
acknowledgment of the merits of Confucianism and its contribution to Chinese culture and history.

Mao Zedong, however, seemed to have gone down a different trajectory of relationship with Confucius and Confucianism. He
is known to be an ardent reader of Chinese classics especially Confucianism and yet his readings in Marxist classics
were not very extensive (Holubnychy 1964; Xing 2011). Holubnychy (1964) has made a study of references and quotations in
all four volumes of Mao's published works and the resulting approximate classification shows that the top three sources
of references come from Stalin (24 percent), Confucian and Neo-Confucian writings (22 percent) and Lenin (18 percent).
References from Marx and Engels are the least, only 4 percent. Young Mao Zedong worshipped Confucius. In his article
published in New Youth on the importance of sports and physical education, Mao (1917) placed Confucius in parallel with
Šākyamuni, founder of Buddhism, and Jesus Christ, and acclaimed them "saints" and "great thinkers." As Mao accepted
Marxism and communism as his dominant ideology, his vision was to create a Chinese version of Marxism that was deeply
rooted in age-old Confucian ideas. In his speech at the Sixth Plenary Session of the Sixth Central Committee of the CCP in 1938, the conference that
established Mao's unrivalled preeminence within the leadership, Mao stated that the CCP members must study China's
"historical heritage" and "preserve the precious legacy from Confucius to San Yat-sen" (Mao 1938) in order to adapt
Marxism and Leninism to the specific conditions of China. Mao was also a vehement opponent of "liberalism" (ziyou zhuyi
自由主义), claiming it was originated from the selfishness of the petite bourgeoisie who placed their personal interest
first (Mao 1937). In his article "Against Liberalism" (1937) Mao calls on CCP members to place revolutionary goals as
their life's first priority and to subsume their personal interests and aspirations under the demands of the revolution.
As I shall discuss later, this belittling of self-interest and glorification of the public interest echo both Confucian
and Legalist theories.

Mao's positive attitudes toward Confucius and Confucianism, however, undertook an about-turn in his ideological
construction after the People's Republic was founded. In his praise for socialist communes established in Confucius'
hometown Qufu, Mao (1955) made a point that socialism is much more superior to the teaching of Confucius who neglected
agricultural productivity. He advised those who intended to visit the Confucian temples in Qufu to visit the Qufu
communes instead. Then prior to the launch of the Cultural Revolution, Mao had classified traditional political
philosophers into opposing ideological camps. He was fond of Emperor Qin and his Legalist advisors whereas Confucianism
represented by Confucius and Mencius was placed in the enemy's camp. "Confucius and Mencius were idealism (weixin zhuyi
唯心主义)," said Mao to then president of the democratic republic of Vietnam Hồ Chí Minh on his visit to China on June 13,
1965 (Xu 1995: 171). "Xun Zi was materialism (weihu zhuyi 唯物主义) and was the left wing of Confucianism. Confucius
represented slave owners and aristocrats while Xun Zi represented the landlord class," Mao added. Xun Zi was the teacher
of the two Legalist founders, Li Si and Han Fei Zi. Under Chinese socialism, materialism was and still is considered as
absolute truth whereas idealism is fallacious and anti-revolutionary. Through this statement, therefore, not only was
Confucius defined as a philosophical bugbear but also ideologically dangerous owing to the fact that the Sage was deemed
a right-wing defender of the interests of aristocrats and slave owners, the worst enemies of the people.

Based on this ideological categorization of Confucius in the 1960s, the “Criticize Lin, Critic- ize Confucius” campaign
(pilin pikong yundong 批林批孔运动) from 1973 to 1976, initiated by Mao and his wife Jiang Qing, came as little surprise. In her analysis of this political and ideol- ogical campaign, Xing Beinan (2016) has revealed an interesting detail of why Lin Biao and Confucius became objects of condemnation together. Unable to find evidence through Lin Biao’s history that would prove that he had long held anti\-party beliefs, the CCP used hand\- written notes containing quotes from
Confucius and Mencius found in Lin Biao’s home as important proof of the ideological roots of Lin Biao’s alleged
anti\-party actions. In Mao’s era, be it a friend or enemy, Confucianism had been used as ammunition in the ideological
battlefield.

# The revival of Confucianism and Chinese classics in post-Mao China

History seems to be uncannily repeating itself. Mao's early ambition of localizing Marxism through injecting elements of
Chinese classics into the Western creed is being realized at full throttle under the party and government led by
President Xi Jinping. Once again Confucianism is used to do battle with the Western ideology of liberalism.

It must be noted that the revival of Confucianism under the current government is not a new, sudden phenomenon.
Confucius and Confucianism have been enjoying increasing government-endorsed acknowledgment in the cultural, educational and political arenas in the Post-Mao era. Annual
activities commemorating Confucius' birth have been held since 1984 and were attended by government officials with ever
more seniority (Yuan 2014). In 1989, Wu Xueqian, then member of the CCP Politburo, attended the 2540th anniversary of
Confucius' birth. Between 1995 and 2009, the commemorating openings were attended twice by Li Ruihuan and Jia Qinglin,
the 6th and 7th Chairmen of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Confucius has been presented to the
outside world as a cultural symbol of China. Starting in 2004, over 500 Confucius Institutes have been built across the
world to promote Chinese language and culture, admittedly a means of delivering Chinese soft power (Xinhua Wang 2016).
Despite the increasing concerns in Western countries over academic freedom due to the establishment of Confucius
Institutes at education institutions (see, for example, Cohen 2016), the Hanban (the abbreviated Chinese word for the
Office of Chinese Language Council International, which oversees all Confucius Institutes) has the ambition to establish
1,000 Confucius Institutes outside of China by 2020 (Xinhua Wang 2016). In 2004, then President Hu Jintao launched the
"Harmonious Society" national development strategy. Couched in Confucian language, the concept and strategies of the
"Harmonious Society" represented a more serious move toward a Confucianist approach to politics and governance.

Accompanied with the official launching of the "Harmonious Society" discourse was the government-backed "Chinese
classics fever" (guoxue re 国学热), that is, a fervor for studying classical Chinese books such as the Analects of
Confucius. Since January 10, 2005, Guangming Ribao, or Guangming Daily, one of the key national newspapers, has added a
new page called guoxue ban (Chinese classics page) specially devoted to articles on traditional learning.

Confucian revival reached new heights after Xi Jinping's speech at an international conference commemorating the 2565th
anniversary of Confucius' birth on September 24, 2014. It marked the first time that a Chinese president formally
attended celebrations marking the birth of Confucius. In the same year the CCP publicly ordered its officials nationwide
to attend lectures on Confucius and other classical Chinese thinkers (Page 2015). Xi himself has been such an ardent
user of classics quotes that in 2015, People's Daily Press compiled a volume containing a collection of 274 classics
quotes used by the president taken from 70 of his speeches since 2012 (People's Daily Editorial Department 2015).
People's Daily reports that of the nearly 300 quotes by President Xi, Confucianism is the most quoted philosophy,
followed by Legalism (People's Daily 2015).

A search on the number of articles on People's Daily from 2000 to 2015 containing the keyword rujia (Confucianism, the
Confucian School), xuefu (Confucianism, Confucian studies) or guoxue (Chinese classics), shows that the use of the three
keywords has been increasing over time, but surged in 2004 and 2014, especially 2014 (see Figure 3.1). This shows that
2004 and 2014, especially 2014, marked a dramatic increase in the promotion of Confucianism and the learning of Chinese
classics.

Confucianism is increasingly becoming central among the learning of Chinese classics endorsed by the CCP. A further
search on the Chinese classics page of Guangming Daily from 2013 to 2016 shows that the percentage of articles on
Confucianism is on the rise annually, reaching 54 percent in the second half of 2015 and 51 percent in the first half of
2016 (see Figure 3.2).

Two significant and far-reaching official projects to promote Confucianism and Chinese classics learning were
accomplished in 2016. The first was the National Chinese Classics Centre, one of the three major cultural projects under
the 12th Five-Year Plan (2011–2015). The Centre was established at the Beijing Olympic Park on August 30, 2016, with a
total building area of 81,362 square metres and a height of 68 metres (Xunjie Jiaoyu 2016). The second was that the
Ministry of Education launched after seven years of preparation a series of textbooks for teaching Chinese traditions. Originally a project under the 11th Five-Year Plan (2006–2010), this set of textbooks are
to be used from kindergarten through high school aiming at cultivating “perfect character” (wanmei renge 完美人格) among
young Chinese (Xunjie Jiaoyu 2016). Canonical Confucian texts comprise the majority of the book list.

How to interpret this wholesale and unprecedented return to cultural roots under President Xi? Guo Yingjie (2016) has
offered an illuminating interpretation from the perspective of nationalism. Guo postulates that Chinese nationalism can
be split into cultural nationalism and political nationalism. Whereas cultural nationalism is aimed at maintaining
cultural autonomy, unity and identity by defending a distinctive and historically rooted way of life, political
nationalism seeks to reconstruct political authority of the state by placing China's cultural heritage within a new
culture that is congenial to state building. Guo argues that from the early twentieth century to the late 1980s these
two types of nationalism contended with one another with the former being dominated by the latter. This, however, has changed under President Xi. What we are witnessing is an
attempt by the authorities to reanchor political norms and institutions on cultural roots – and to derive sustenance and
legitimacy from them. The CCP is not only justifying China’s political system, values and development model on the basis
of “national conditions”; it is also doing so on the back of age-old Chinese traditions.

While agreeing with Guo Yingjie's observation of the CCP putting together a potent cultural underpinning for its
political superstructure, I argue that this phenomenon should be understood as an attempt by the Xi-led party to project
a novel ideological universe of discourse that can rival Western political liberalism. Before I elaborate on this point,
I would like to outline, from a political-philosophical perspective, how and why Confucianism and Legalism are capable
of offering a shared fund of political ideas and principles congenial to a highly centralized regime – as well as Xi’s
dual rhetoric of “rule by virtue” and “governing the nation in accordance with law.”

# What can Confucianism and Legalism offer?

Confucius has a dream. He calls it da tong (大同), literally meaning the Grand Unity. It is also known as "One World" in
English. It is a vision of global unification oriented to civic equality and self-government. For Confucius, it is the
kind of governance that is guided by the Grand Path (da dao 大道), the way of Heaven, that he believes is the bequest of
the ancient god-kings. Da tong, for Confucius, is a world of ultimate harmony, peace, happiness and equality, but the
world Confucius actually faced then was one that was sinking into endless wars and violence.

The Confucian approach to realizing the utopian vision of da tong can be best summarized by what political philosopher
Yang Yang (1995) first called in the early 1990s: integration of politics and religion/education (zhengjiao heyi 政教合一).
Zhengjiao heyi is the Chinese term used to refer to the political system in Europe prior to separation between church
and state. While admitting that Confucianism may not be a religion per se, Yang uses the zhengjiao heyi concept to argue
that the moral, ethical, sociological and spiritual space that Confucian political philosophy occupies has elevated it
to the realm of a religion, so much so that those in political power assume the kind of absolute moral authority that is
typically exercised by religious leaders. Yang Yang's thesis of zhengjiao heyi has been widely used by scholars in China
to describe Confucianist political theory.

The Confucian paradigm of zhengjiao heyi is consistent with the Confucian definition of human nature as a summation of
virtuous traits bestowed by Heaven. The Confucian thesis of human nature being good, however, does not lead to a
confidence in the benignity of character attributes bequeathed by the "state of nature." On the contrary, Confucianism
insists on the elimination of "animal instincts" within human nature. Confucius and his disciples teach that progress
for humanity is only possible through abandoning the animal essence of the human make-up – and to embark on a ceaseless
cultivation, refinement and transformation of the self from inside out so as to realize the maximum moral potentials of
human nature. It is therefore the primary political responsibility of virtuous emperors to guide their subjects to
exercise li (礼 decorum and ritual propriety) so as to nurture a perfect moral character. The Confucian utopian vision
places perfect morality and the practice of decorum and ritual propriety (li) on the same metaphysical level as Heaven
and the Way (dao). Any transgression of the prescribed decorum and ritual propriety will not be tolerated and a person
who does so will be judged and treated as a "sub-human."

The ruler, who is construed as internally a saint, naturally becomes the nation's moral teacher under the so-called
junshi heyi (君师合一) principle. The Confucian ethos of internally a saint and outwardly a king (neisheng waiwang 内圣外王) creates a model of authority recognition: it establishes the Chinese
political-cultural norm whereby a regime's mandate to rule relies on its moral authority. In other words, political
legitimacy is established through establishing moral authority. Pan-morality (fan daoduhua 泛道德化), that is, a tendency to
justify political agendas through a moral purpose, and pan-politicization (fan zhengzhilua 泛政治化), that is, a tendency to
treat moral choices, however trivial or personal, as a political issue, are the twin processes within a state governed
by Confucian principles. The dual pan-morality and pan-politicization processes underpin a public culture marked by
suspicion and intolerance of doctrines other than state orthodoxy, which must be embraced by the masses.

Legalism, on the other hand, holds that human actions are driven by self-interest and this cannot be changed by
education and other remedial measures. A sovereign, therefore, should not lead through moral aspirations but through
balancing subjects' and the ruler's interests using standardized rules that equally apply to everyone. The legalist
founder Han Fei Zi has no trust in "smart" government officials who would always use their resources to satisfy their
personal and family's interests before serving the public interest. Therefore he calls for absolute power and authority
to be bestowed on the ruler, so that he is equipped to tackle fraud and deception of canny officials who appear to be
prudent (zhi智) (see Han Fei Zi, Chapter 47). Han repudiates the kind of pedagogy and rites Confucius deemed necessary to
maintain personal relationships or to serve family interests; instead, he advocates the concept of gongyi (公义), which
places the ruler's and the nation's public interest over different types of personal interest (Han Fei Zi, Chapter 19).

As political philosophies, Confucianism and Legalism both center on the problem of order but they propose very different
architectures for maintaining order. The former relies on orderly social relationships enforced by doctrines of moral
codes and modes of behavior (li) to be affirmed by the masses who are led by supposedly morally superior leaders in the
hierarchy (i.e., the king, the magistrate, the father, the husband, the teacher and the older brother). The latter,
however, is skeptical of any form of self-claimed altruism or morality and instead advocates uniformity of law (fa 法)
enforcement. Law and society in imperial China was characterized by what Tung-Tsu Ch'ü (2011) aptly terms the
Confucianization of law, defined by Bodde and Morris (1967: 29) as "the incorporation of the spirit and sometimes of the
actual provisions of Confucian li into the legal codes."

I have argued that the political theory behind President Xi's governing strategy of "governing the country according to
law" (yifa zhiguo 依法治国) can be coined "Confucianized Legalism" (Lin in press), that is, incorporation of the spirit and
sometimes of the actual provisions of prescribed moral rules into law enforcement. At the Fourth Plenum of the
Eighteenth CCP Central Committee, party authorities for the first time made "governing the country according to law"
(yifa zhiguo) the leitmotif at a plenary session. The Fourth Plenum Decision – CCP Central Committee Decision Regarding
Some Major Questions in Comprehensively Promoting Governance According to the Law – marked a new CCP governing strategy
of relying on law enforcement to maintain order and stability, coupled with absolute authority and leadership of the
party. As Trevaskes (2016) rightly observes, President Xi's "governing the country according to law" is not a new idea
of rule of law rather a greater accentuation of the dialectical unity of party leadership and the rule of law. The
Decision declares that the party's leadership is the most essential characteristic of and the most fundamental
prerequisite for socialist rule of law. The narrative is that only if the party leads every aspect of governance through
law-making, law reform and law enforcement can the people become the masters of the nation and can social order be
maintained. This would have been of little surprise to Han Fei Zi, who advocates the organic synthesis of tough laws and
absolute power of the ruler so as to minimize obstruction from local officials who are prone to corruption.

The dual emphasis on moral influence expressed in the Decision shows a strong Confucian orientation. The Decision states
that rule of law and rule by virtue (yide zhiguo 以德治国) must be integrated with one another and that dual emphasis must
be placed on the normative role of law and the educational function of morality. Morality includes "socialist core
values, Chinese traditional virtues and morals, social morals, professional ethics, family virtues and morals, and
personal character" (Zhonggong zhongyang guanyu quanmin tuijin yifazhiguo ruogan zhongda wenti de jueding 2014). The
Decision explains the dialectical relationship between rule of law and rule by virtue as follows: rule of law is to
reflect moral concepts, therefore the propelling role of law must be strengthened through moral construction; morality
is to nurture the spirit of rule of law, and therefore the supporting role of morality must be strengthened through
constructing the culture of rule of law. All this, as the Decision states, is to realize the complementary relationship
between law and morality, and between rule of law and rule by virtue. Demonstrated here is the supremacy of morality and
the use of law to reinforce moral values prescribed by the ruling party. At its core are pan-morality and
pan-politicization and the belief that order and stability can only be brought about through banishing alien creeds and
ideologies.

Unifying beliefs and thoughts are of particular importance to a rationale of "rule by virtue" that echoes a Confucian
way of integrating politics and religion/education into one (zhengjiao heyi). On February 28, 2016 the CCP Central
Committee issued the Education Scheme for All Party Members. The latter are asked to pursue "studies of the Party
Constitution and Party Regulations, [and] of the series of [Xi Jinping] speeches [so as] to become bona fide party
members." This is the so-called "two studies and one become" (liangxue yizuo 两学一做) campaign that is being implemented on
a regular basis across the board. The content of the first series of "studies" includes: clarifying basic criteria of
party members; establishing behavioral regulations; studying the party Constitution line by line; studying the history
of the party as well as exemplary revolutionary figures; studying party laws and regulations; learning lessons from
corrupt officials who have broken the law and party rules, such as Zhou Yongkang, Bo Xilai, Xu Caihou, Guo Boxiong and
Ling Jihua; and living by principle (Tu jie 2016). The second series of "studies" means studying Xi Jinping's speeches
on reform, development and stability; on domestic politics and foreign affairs; on defense and governing the party, the
nation and the military; and on the new concepts, thoughts and strategies of governance. "Becoming a bona fide party
member" means to possess "four emphases and four haves" (sijiang siyou 四讲四有) in their spirit and character –
"emphasizing politics, having faith; emphasizing regulations, having discipline; emphasizing morality, having good
conduct; emphasizing selfless dedication, having [politically correct] action" (Tu jie 2016). This dual strategy of
using law to harness political power – a legalist stance – and imposing moral principles through education – a Confucian
method – underpins the governing philosophy of Xi Jinping.

# Establishing cultural and ideological legitimacy of the CCP: Sinicizing Marxism

It has become evident that Xi Jinping's highest priority is to maintain and enhance the legitimacy of the CCP so as to
ensure its "perennial" rule. The unprecedented revival of Confucianism and Chinese classics should not be seen as
motivated by mere nostalgia for a lost tradition though it may be couched as such by propagandists. The turn toward
Confucianism is a carefully crafted project to establish cultural and ideological legitimacy of the CCP; the key
approach, in Xi's own words, is to "Sinicize Marxism" through Confucianism (Xi 2014a).

What is important to bear in mind is that Xi Jinping's political dream goes beyond establishing legitimacy of the CCP.
His ultimate goal is to create a discourse and reality of the "China model," one that is opposed to the Western model of liberal democracy. This China model consists of a highly
centralized, authoritarian socialist regime led by the CCP. Xi Jinping's argument is based on traditional and cultural
determinism. He argues that liberal democracy of the West stems from ancient Greek concepts of democracy and is
therefore suitable for Western society. A different ruling blood line runs through China's body politic and governs its
people; China therefore must choose a different path, that is, a socialist regime based on a socialist core value system
(shehui zhuyi hexi jiazhi tixi 社会主义核心价值体系) that is administered by the CCP. As Xi Jinping said to Greek Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras, "Your democracy is ancient Greek and Roman democracy. That is your tradition. We have our own
tradition" (Xi 2014b). Xi Jinping cited the example of the death penalty. Many Western countries have abolished the
death penalty from the perspective of human rights, Xi argued, but if a "referendum" were carried out in China, many
Chinese people would reject abolishing the death penalty as the view that murderers are the most evil and must pay back
with their lives is deeply rooted in Chinese tradition (Xi 2014b).

In his address to the Confucius Research Institute in Qufu in 2013, President Xi emphasized that four aspects must be
stated clearly in promoting Confucius and Confucianism across the world. First, every country and nation differs in
their historical tradition, cultural heritage and national conditions and therefore must choose their unique path of
development. Second, Chinese traditional culture contains the deepest spiritual pursuit of the Chinese people and has
nurtured the nation from generation to generation. Third, Chinese traditional culture is the extraordinary strength of
the Chinese nation and its most profound cultural soft power. Fourth, socialism with Chinese characteristics has
profound historical origins and broad realistic foundation: it is deeply rooted in Chinese culture, it reflects the will
of the Chinese people and it is therefore suitable for China and for the advancement of society (Xi 2014b). Xi
emphasizes that one must hold a Marxian historical materialist (lishi weiwu zhuyi 历史唯物主义) stance toward Confucian
theories (Xi 2014b), which shows his conviction in tailoring the past for today's political purposes.

Calling for political pluralism (zhengzhi de duoyuan xing 政治的多元性), Xi is asking the world to accept the set of ideas and
governing principles of Chinese socialism. His political ambition is to create a Sino-centric discourse and Chinese
civilization in parallel with the Euro-centric Western civilization. Once accomplished, all the criticisms on and
suspicions of one-party rule from the standpoint of liberty, human rights, individualism will be resolved once and for
all. "Western" concepts are deemed irrelevant as China, which will be run based on its own deeply rooted governing
principles.

There are still two issues to be resolved. One is the issue of ideology. The official ideology of the CCP still is
Marxism, which is a Western idea. If tradition determines a nation's future, how can one justify a borrowed guiding
ideology? The second is the issue of consistency of the CCP. If Xi were to create a discourse and reality called the
"Chinese model," this has to be a consistent story told by all CCP leaders. For example, how to tell the story of Mao
Zedong, whose ideas conflicted with those of later CCP leaders? Xi Jinping's solution is to play up the Sinicization of
Marxism (zhongguo hua de makesi zhuyi 马克思主义中国化). In his 2013 speech marking the 120th anniversary of the birth of Mao
Zedong, Xi praised Mao as being "the great pioneer in Sinicizing Marxism" (Wang 2014) while at the same time referring
to his attachment to Confucianism as a young Communist. This way, the succeeding state ideologies, such as the Deng
Xiaoping Theory, Jiang Zemin's "Theory of the Three Represents" and Hu Jintao's "Scientific Outlook on Development,"
became an extension of Mao Zedong's contribution to the Sinicization of Marxism. In 2014 Xi officially added cultural
confidence to the three "confidences," namely, confidence in the [socialist] road, confidence in the [socialist] theory
and confidence in [socialist] systems. Figure 3.3 shows the trajectory that the phrase "cultural confidence" has traveled on
People's Daily from 2003, when the term first appeared, to 2016. A surge in the use of the term occurred in 2011, from
25 articles to 168, and the term became a catch-phrase again last year, already appearing 219 times as of October 19,
2016, as opposed to 122 in 2015.

# Conclusion

As political philosophies Confucianism and Legalism are capable of supporting a highly centralized authoritarian regime
and they have provided ideas and governing principles that underpin the socialist rule in China, past and present. On
the other hand, they have been used as ammunition in the ideological battlefield to reject political liberalism that has
dominated Western society. Today's unprecedented revival of Confucianism and Chinese classics should be seen as part of
a systematic effort by the current government to gain discursive authority of legitimacy for the CCP and the Chinese
socialist regime. This will only result in an increasingly dogmatic insistence on the moral high ground based on a rigid
claim of excellence for the Chinese way of governing – and an outright rejection of universal liberal principles. It
remains to be seen how this will affect China's relations with countries – both in the West and in Asia – that are
practicing political liberalism and democracy. It also remains to be seen how an increasingly authoritarian rule can
co-exist with increasing economic freedom of the people, who would demand civil liberties that are outside the
parameters of Confucianism and Legalism.

# References

Bodde, D. and Morris, C. (1967) Law in Imperial China: Exemplified by 190 Ch'ing Dynasty Cases Translated from the
Hsing-an Hui-lan with Historical, Social and Juridical Commentaries. University of Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia.

Chen, Duxiu. (1916) Wuren zhi zuihou zhi juewu (Our last awareness). Qingnian Zazhi (New Youth), 1(6).

Ch'ü, Tung-Tsu. (2011) Law and Society in Traditional China. The Commercial Press, Beijing.

Cohen, Hagar. (2016) Australian universities the latest battleground in Chinese soft power offensive. Available at:
www.abc.net.au/news/2016-10-14/universities-latest-battleground-in-chinese-soft-power-offensive/7931958 [October 15,
2016].

Guo, Yingjie. (2016) The CCP returns to Chinese cultural roots. East Asia Forum, October 3. Available at:
www.eastasiaforum.org/2016/10/03/the-ccp-returns-to-chinese-cultural-roots/ [October 10, 2016].

Han Fei Zi, Gushiwen wang. Available at: http://so.gushiwen.org/guwen/book.aspx?b=%E9%9F%A9%E9 %9D%9E%E5%AD%90 [July 12,
2016].

Holubnychy, Vsevolod. (1964) Mao Tse-tung's materialistic dialectics. The China Quarterly, 19, pp. 3–37.

Lin, Delia. (in press) High justice versus low justice: the legacy of Confucian and Legalist notions of justice.

In Flora Sapio et al. (eds.), Justice, the China Experience. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.

Mao, Zedong. (1917) Tiyu zhi yanjiu (Research on physical education). Xin Qingnian (New Youth), 3(2).

Mao, Zedong. (1937) Fandui ziyou zhuyi (Against liberalism). Available at: www.people.com.cn/GB/
channel1/10/20000529/80819.html [July 8, 2016].

Mao, Zedong. (1938) Zhongguo gongchandang zai minzu zhanzheng zhong de diwei (The status of the CCP in the national
war). Available at: www.marxists.org/chinese/maozedong/marxist.org-chinese-mao-19381014.htm [July 8, 2016].

Mao, Zedong. (1955) Zhongguo nongcun de shehuihui gaochao (The socialist climax in Chinese villages).

Available at: www.people.com.cn/GB/shizheng/8198/30446/30452/2196125.html [July 8, 2016].

Page, Jeremy. (2015) Why China is turning back to Confucius. The Wall Street Journal, September 20.

Available at: www.wsj.com/articles/why-china-is-turning-back-to-confucius-1442754000 [September 22, 2015].

People's Daily. (2015) Dashuju fenxi: Xi Jinping yongdian 300 ju, zuichang yinyong najia napai? (Big data analysis: what
are the most quoted philosophies and schools of the 300 quotes by Xi Jinping?). Available at:
http://china.huanqiu.com/article/2015-02/5779831.html [November 8, 2016].

People's Daily Editorial Department. (2015) Xi Jinping Yongdian (Classics Quotes Used by Xi Jinping).

Renmin Ribao Chubanshe, Beijing.

Trevaskes, Susan. (2016) "Rule of law" narrative building in the Xi Jinping period. Griffith University seminar.

Tu jie: mianxiang quanti dangyuan kaizhan de "liang xue yi zuo" jiujing shi shenme (Graph explanation: what does "two
studies and one become" that is to be carried out amongst all party members mean exactly?) (2016). Available at
http://cpc.people.com.cn/xuexi/n1/2016/0301/c385474-28162054. html [November 18, 2016].

Wang, Ren. (2014) Xi Jinping ping "Mao" shifang de xinhao (Messages behind Xi Jinping's comments on Mao). Available at:
http://club.china.com/data/thread/1011/2767/45/90/7_1.html [October 10, 2016].

Xi, Jinping. (2014a) Xi Jinping: zai jinian Kongzi danchen 2576 zhounian guoji xueshu yantaohui shang de jianghua
(Speech by President Xi Jinping at the international conference commemorating the 2565th anniversary of Confucius'
birth). Xinhua wang. Available at: http://news.xinhuanet.com/politics/2014-09/24/c_1112612018.htm [October 10, 2016].

Xi, Jinping. (2014b) Xi Jinping zhuqi jianghua: shijie ruxue chuanbo, zhongguo yao baochi chongfen huayuquan (Speech by
President Xi Jinping in Qufu: In promoting Confucianism around the world, China must maintain sufficient discursive
power). Guancha zhe. Available at: www.guancha.cn/Xijin-Ping/2014_09_29_271934.shtml [October 10, 2016].

Xing, Beinan. (2016) "Pi Lin Pi Kong" yundong zhong "Pi Kong" de jiben tezheng cong zhongguo gongchan chang yu rujia
wenhua guanxi de shijiao lai jiexi (An analysis of the relationship between the CCP and Confucian culture: the
characteristics of criticising Confucius during the Movement of Criticising Li Biao and Confucius). In Wu Chengmo (ed.),
Hong Huo – Wenge Wushi Zhounian Xueshu Lunwen Ji (1966–2016) (Red Disaster: A Collection of Academic Papers on the 50th
Anniversary of the Cultural Revolution). New York: World Chinese Publishing, pp. 274–290.

Xing, Meiling. (2011) Mao Zedong yu rujia sixiang (Mao Zedong and Confucian ideas). Yanbian Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexue
Ban) (Journal of Yanbian University: Social Sciences), 44 (1), pp. 69–73.

Xinhua Wang. (2016) Confucius Institute: promoting language, culture and friendliness. Available at:
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2006-10/02/content_5521722.htm [October 3, 2016].

Xu, Jin. (1995) Mao Zedong Zhi Hun (The Spirit of Mao Zedong). Zhongyang wenxian chuban she, Beijing.

Xunjie Jiaoyu (2016) Zhongguo guoxue zhongxin zai Beijing jiancheng, Zhongyang jueding zai quanguo zhongxiaoxue tuiguang
guoxue fanli jiaoyu (Chinese classics center established in Beijing and the central government to implement learning selected Chinese classics in primary and secondary schools). Available at:
www.jtxlszx.com/a/xydt/jywx/2016/1006/150402.html [October 15, 2016]. Yang Yang. (1995) Zhongguo chuantong zhengjiao
heyi guannian poxi (Study of the Chinese traditional idea of politics and religion/education in one). Tianjin Social
Sciences, 6, pp. 51–57. Yi, Baisha. (1916) Kongzi pingyi shang (A critique of Confucius I). Qingnian Zazhi (New Youth),
1(6). Yuan, Gangong. (2014) Xi Jinping chaogao guige jinian Kongzi de zhenshi yitu (Real motivations behind Xi Jinping’s
high-profile effort in commemorating Confucius). Available at: www.szhgh.com/Article/
opinion/zatan/2014-09-25/63613.html [October 10, 2016]. Zhonggong zhongyang guanyu quanmian tuijin yifazhiguo ruogan
zhongda wenti de jueding (CCP Central Committee Decision Regarding Some Major Questions in Comprehensively Promoting
Governance According to the Law). (2014) Xinhua wang, October 28. Available from:
http://news.xinhuanet.com/politics/2014-10/28/c_1113015330.htm [January 10, 2015]. Zhou, Zhicheng. (2010) Lun Kongzi
chengwei shengren zhi guocheng ji qita (On the process through which Confucius became a Saint and other matters). Kong
Zi Yanjiu (Studies of Confucius), 4, pp. 30–39.

