# 5. Psychological warfare model

The psychological warfare model mainly includes the two aspects of psychological attack and psychological defense. The
first is the psychological attack model. This mainly is to conduct an analysis of various psychological warfare means
adopted when attacking the enemy’s psychology, such as utilizing television, broadcasts, leaflets and electronic mail,
as well as information beneficial to oneself that can be distributed in large volumes with indices such as to cause the
enemy commander difficulty to correctly make decisions, to bring down morale, create nervousness, worry, fear,
weariness, and other unsatisfactory of war-weariness levels. Second is the psychological defense model. This mainly is
to conduct an analysis of various psychological warfare means adopted to preserve one’s own force’s psychology and
morale, and the indices are the levels of raising and protecting one’s own commanders’ and soldiers’ morale.

(4) Conducting simulation evaluations for operational effectiveness

The final link of the joint campaign IO effectiveness evaluation is to conduct simulation evaluations, and this is
mainly in three phases: the preparations phase, simulation phase and analysis phase.21 The main work of the preparations
phase are in aspects such as determining objectives, clarifying forms, general design, conducting data inputs, preparing
equipment, modeling and software, organizing of personnel, logistic support, preparations of associated specialized
data-materials such as scenarios, etc. monitoring characteristics {jiance xingneng}, and completing set-up and tests $\{ tia osh i \}$ . The Guidance and
Regulating Office {导调室 daotiaoshi} is responsible for regulatingcontrolling {tiaokong} the simulation phase, and the red
and blue sides conduct a series of rounds-type simulation. The analysis phase is mainly an analysis of the IO simulation
data. The form for the results of the analysis phase is normally a report.

# III. Utilizing the evaluation conclusion…342

The goal of the joint campaign IO effectiveness evaluation is to conduct [end of page 342] a thorough summary analysis
of the evaluation conclusion so as to, in the end, effectively utilize it. The utilization of the joint campaign IO
effectiveness evaluation conclusion is to undergo a summary analysis of the evaluation conclusion and improve the
accuracy of the evaluation.

(1) Revision model

When conducting analysis of the effectiveness evaluation conclusion, one frequently discovers inconsistencies between
the evaluation results and human predicted results. Through analysis of the evaluation conclusion, one can find the
specific reasons for triggering model and parameter setup inaccuracies, improve the bonding degree of the model and
actual battlefield, make adjustments in the model and re-set up the model parameters.

(2) Improve command and control capability

Through the operational effectiveness evaluation conclusion, one can analyze the problems appearing during the course of
decision-making, planning and controlling by the joint campaign IO commander and his command organ, as well as expose
insufficient shortcomings, objectively summarize lessons, so as to allow their acknowledgements to be elevated and
improve command and control capabilities of commanders and their command organs.

(3) Improve unit integrated-whole operational capability

Through the evaluation of joint campaign IO effectiveness, one can discover the critical links and each factor affecting
one’s joint campaign IO capability, find the strong points and weak points, and further improve a unit’s
integrated-whole operational capability. [End of page 343]

This page intentionally left blank.

# Chapter 21 Joint Campaign Information Operations Training…344

The information operations training is the live exercises and activities for the training of the information operations
understanding, skills, and capabilities, that are implemented in a planned, organized, and targeted fashion, for each
level of commander of the joint campaign, and each level of the corresponding military (branch) command agency. Its
objective is to increase the joint campaign information operations capabilities. With regard to enhancing the
information operations training, it is a major component of the joint campaign training, under information technology
conditions, and it is also a major measure for increasing the joint campaign combat capabilities.

# Section 1: Characteristics of Joint Campaign Information Operations Training…344

The information operations training serves as an important component of the joint campaign training, but it is different
than the military training under normal conditions, because it has different characteristics and requirements. They are
mainly displayed in the following several aspects.

# I. The blended quality of the training topics…344

With regard to the combat under information technology conditions, the distinction between the information and weapons,
and the control systems and the casualty style weapons can be combined into one entity, the information combat
operations and the other combat measures can naturally be combined, and therefore, this causes the information
operations to be carried out in the entire process of the combat. The combat operations cannot be separated from the
support of the information operations, and this determines that the information operations training is not just [end of
page 344] an aggressive, isolated, and specialized training topic, but it must also be implemented in the whole process
of the joint training. Within the blending of the training on the other topics, this can then fully be implemented
through the entire training of the information operations training.

# II. The open quality of the forces participating in the training…345

Between the complex spaces of the wide electromagnetic spaces, computer network spaces, and psychological spaces, the
information combat operations cover all of the battlefields in the land, sea, air, and space dimensions, which causes
the forces that are participating in the information operations to not only receive the various restrictions of the
other combat operations but it also forces the military troops and locals to also participate. On another hand, with
regard to each of the information combat operations, why should they fear the minute operations, which could be dragged
into each of the forces of the information operations? In addition to the current situation, they also have depth, and
in addition to their own specialty, they also have the other specialties, and they do not have the division of the front
and rear lines. Therefore, the characteristics of this type of wide area force participating in the information
operations causes the information operations training to also have a very strong open quality, and if the forces
participate in the information operations, then they must participate in the information operations training.

# III. The synthesized quality of the training content…345

Although we are currently facing a transition period of shifting from mechanized war to information technology war,
there are differences in the period of use of the focal points and the degree of integration for the information
operations soft kill and hard destruction, but the implementation of the measures of information operations is
fundamentally determined. For example, the information attack operations jointly use the electronic interference,
military deception, network attacks, entity destruction, psychological warfare, and other various types of measures to
reduce and destroy the effective use of the enemy information systems, and furthermore, each of the measures used in the
information operations also includes various types of combat operations. The multitude of information operations
measures creates the content of the information operations training, and it also is correspondingly complex. Therefore,
during the arrangement of the information operations training content, they must train on each of the types of combat
measures and operations, and they cannot just simply add to the several current types of combat measures. Moreover,
based on the unified combat objectives, they must be jointly coordinated and they must be coordinated identically in
order to implement the synthesized quality of the training. [end of page 345]

# IV. The flexibility of the training methods…346

The digital troops and the information network battlefields are in agreement with one another, and through the wireless
communications, optical fiber communications, satellite communications, and other transmission measures, they put the
battlefield command agencies, combat troops, logistics support troops, single weaponry, and single troops into a
crisscrossed information network space. Through the collection, submission, and processing of the battlefield
information, it can describe a commonly used battlefield situation that corresponds to the battlefield, which allows
each level of commander and staff officer personnel to achieve the requirements for a clear, accurate, and appropriate
battlefield situation diagram, from the shared databases, and this puts forth decisions and the command troop
operations. This significantly reduces the cycle of the distance between the commander decision-makers and the combat
troops, as well as the adoption of the operations, so they are capable of implementing effective information combat
commands. This characteristic of the digital troops allows the information operations training to achieve the close
reciprocal relationship between the troops that rely upon digital [information] and the command agencies, which uses
simulations, and lifelike actual technology that is even more flexible, as well as other types of organized training,
and it also can guarantee the results and effectiveness of the training.

# V. The precision quality of the training assessments…346

The information technology of the weaponry is the physical foundation of the information operations. The combination of
the information technology and the weaponry forms an information technology weapons system, it includes each of the
combat platforms and guided missile systems, etc. and with the command information systems, it forms the main methods
for the information operations. The information technology weaponry allows the information flow of the information
operations to objectively, accurately, and rapidly lead to the collection, transmission, and processing of the
information in the information networks, and this characteristic allows the assessment of the information operations
training to reach even greater heights. The proportion of the quantitative assessment will significantly increase and
the precision of the training assessments will greatly increase.

# VI. The complexity of the training environment set-up…346

The emergence of information operations was the broad use of a series of highly technological results in the military
realm, which regarded information technology as the core and it was a combat style that contained a large amount of
advanced science and technology. With regard to the comparison with the traditional mobilization combat and firepower
combat operations, most of the information combat operations [end of page 346] are developed within the intangible
electromagnetic spaces, computer network spaces, and the space of man’s knowledge. This puts forth even higher
requirements on the training environment, and furthermore, it also requires them to gain the support of the technology
and monetary resources. They should also be aware that the multidimensionality of the information operations spaces, the
variety of the forces participating in the combat, the diversity in the combat styles, and the combat of the combat
operations sets up an even greater degree of difficulty for the environments of the information operations training.

# Section 2: The Content of the Joint Campaign Information Operations Training…347

The content of the information operations training refers to the integration of each type of knowledge and capability
that the trainees should study and master during the process of the information operations training. The content of the
information operations training should be determined based on the joint campaign information operations tasks, the
systems and organizations of the troops, as well as the possible development of the weaponry. The scientific set up of
the information operations training content is a guarantee for the training of qualified information operations
commanders, as well as their corresponding command agency personnel. The content of the information operations training
is reflected through the information operations training plans, the training outlines, the teaching materials, the
scenarios, and other forms. The content of the information operations training is not unalterable, but it continuously
develops following the changes in the joint campaign styles, the development of the weaponry, and the newer modern eras.
The content of the joint campaign information operations training can normally be divided into the information
operations training of the joint campaign commanders and their command organizations, the training of the information
operations specialized troops (elements), as well as the information operations training of the joint campaign military
groups and the other troops, and other aspects.

# I. The content of the commander and command organization information operations training…347

The joint campaign commanders and command organizations are the organizers and commanders of the information operations
and the quality is the determining factor that restricts the success or failure of the information operations. Because
of this, during the organization of the information operations training, they must focus on making great efforts in the
training of the joint campaign commanders and the [end of page 347] staff officer personnel from the information
operations command agencies. They should focus on studying and mastering the following content.

(1) The fundamental theories of the information operations

Most importantly, they should understand and grasp the concept of the information operations, the principles and
characteristics, the information operations types and styles, the information operations guiding ideologies and
fundamental principles, the information operations forces structure, the information operations fighting methods, the
organization and planning of the information operations, the command and control of the information operations, the
information operations support, as well as the information operations construction and development, and other
theoretical issues. They must also understand and research the foreign military information operations theoretical
research situations, and they must become familiar with the forward position theoretical issues of the foreign military
information operations.

(2) The technology theories of the information operations

First of all, they should understand the microelectronic technology, photoelectricity technology, superconduction
electronic technology, sub electronic technology, energy technology, and other foundational technology, of the
information operations. Second of all, they should master the information collection technology, information
transmission technology, information processing and regeneration technology, control technology, information attack
technology, information defense technology, and other major information operations technology. Third, they should
understand the system structure technology, the connection and linking technology, the system integration technology,
the simulation and evaluation technology, the integrated application technology, and other general information
operations technology. In addition, they must also understand the status and developmental trends, etc. of the
information operations technology equipment of the combat opponents or of the potential opponents.

(3) The application theories of the information operations

First of all, they must understand the fundamental viewpoints of the military information operations, the situation of
the fundamental structure of the information systems, the organizational equipment and information operations
capabilities of the information operations forces, and the operations and methods of the information operations. Second
of all, they must become familiar with the organization equipment, combat capabilities, and the possible tasks and
application methods of the information operations. Third, they must master the methods of the information operations
organization and the implementation of each of the combat types in the joint campaign.

With regard to the information operations commanders and their command agencies, and with regard to the foundation of
the above-mentioned training content, [end of page 348] they must also focus on implementing the organized command
training of the information operations. Its content mainly includes: the first is understanding the intentions of the
leadership of the upper level authorities and the tasks that the authorities at the same level are responsible for. The
second is the capability of analyzing the battlefield information environments and assessing the information operations
of the Chinese and the enemy. This includes the analysis of the structural situations of the information systems of the
enemy and of the Chinese, the information defense capabilities, and the strong and weak points; the analysis of the
quantity and quality of the information attack weaponry of both the enemy and the Chinese, as well as the information
attack capabilities; the enemy information attack plots; the primary direction, primary methods, and primary measures;
the analysis of the structure of the infrastructure of the both the enemy and the Chinese, as well as the influence of
the support information operations strengths of the people, etc. The third is the information combat and command
policies. This mainly includes the issues that the policy makers must focus on. The fourth is the formulation of the
information operations plans. This is mainly the mastery of the methods based on the decisions of the upper level
commanders, the tasks of the information operations at the same level, the information operations decisions, and the
formulation of the information operations plans. The fifth is the training of the formulation of the joint plans of the
information operations. This is mainly the mastery and formulation of the coordinated planning of each period of tasks
and operational methods of the information operations on each of the combat forces, between the information defense and
information attacks, between each of the groups of the information combat operations, as well as between the information
combat operations and the other combat operations.

# II. The training of the information operations specialized units (elements)…359

The information operations specialized units (elements) are a main force in the implementation of the information
operations, and therefore, they are also a focal point for the information operations training. The specialized
structure of the information operations specialized units (elements) is complex, it includes the reconnaissance
intelligence troops (elements) that are responsible for the collection of information, but it also includes the
electronic warfare, network warfare, and psychological warfare troops (elements) that are responsible for the
information attacks. Based on the different types of specialties, the implementation of the content of the training and
the methods for each are different.

(1) The specialized training for the information operations specialized troops (elements)

1. The specialized training of the electronic warfare troops (elements)

The electronic warfare troops (elements) that are subordinate to the joint campaign military groups are the main force
for implementing the information operations, and they mainly implement the foundational knowledge and studies of the
electronic warfare and the technology and the war tactics training [end of page 349]. The content mainly includes: the
structure, functions, work principles, and work methods of the electronic equipment of the Chinese military; the
characteristics, tasks, guiding ideology, and fundamental principles of the electronic warfare of the Chinese military;
the fundamental military tactics and the specific measures and methods of each type of situation of the Chinese military
electronic warfare; the command and coordination of the Chinese military electronic combat; and the organization and
implementation of the electronic warfare of the Chinese military under each type of operations style. Another focal
point is the electronic interference training. The objective of the electronic interference training is to master the
use of each type of electronic interference war tactic. It can mainly be divided into the suppression electronic
interference training and the deception electronic interference training. The objective of the suppression electronic
interference training is to increase the capabilities for information collection, information transmission, and
information processing that can weaken and cripple the information systems and information weapons of the enemy; this
mainly includes the communications interference training, the radar interference training, the photoelectricity
interference training, the control and guided interference training, the navigation interference training, the detonator
interference training, the identification of friend or foe interference training, etc. The specific content of the
communications interference training includes: the first is the applied training on the width of the jammer spectrum;
the second is the training on the jamming signal adjustment methods and styles; the third is the applied training on the
function intensity; the fourth is the designation training on the radiation direction; the fifth is the elective
training on the frequency or wave band. The main content of the radar interference training includes: training on the
chaff dispersing (interference wire / band), training on the placement of the reflector, the training on absorbing the layer coating, the training for setting up the decoys and radar bait, and the electronic function training for changing
the mediums in the local air space. The main content of the photoelectricity interference training is the training on
the laser interference, which is the use of an extremely bright laser for interference, the photoelectricity apparatus
used to destroy the enemy, or to interfere with or damage the eyes of the enemy personnel, which is a method that blinds
the enemy personnel and instruments so they are blind. It can be divided into the direct interference training, the training to mislead the interference, the scattered interference
training, the passive interference training, etc.

With regard to the deception type electronic interference training, it is the training that uses their own electronic
equipment or camouflaged equipment to put out false information, or it passes off as the enemy reports and intelligence
that are broadcast, or the implementation of false communications, the set up of false electronic targets, etc., or the
use of electronic equipment and electronic technology measures, to deceive or mislead the enemy personnel in the realm
of electronics; the content of the training for the deception style radar interference mainly includes: [end of page
350] the training on remote deception interference, the training on angular deception interference, the training on
speed deception training, etc.

# 2. The training of the network warfare units (elements)

The network warfare units (elements) are a major force in the implementation of the battlefield network attacks. The
network warfare units (elements) should mainly implement the network reconnaissance and network attack training, based
on understanding and mastering the structure, equipment models, equipment function standards, network protocols, network
operations systems, and network management of the enemy military computer information networks, as well as the
combination of the military networks and civilian networks.

The content of the network reconnaissance training mainly includes: network eavesdropping, command decoding, registering
the computer networks, information flow analysis, target system security scanning, the collection and analysis of the
leak of electromagnetic information, etc.

The content of the network attack training is mainly the training on the computer virus attacks and the training on the
computer network invasions. The training on the computer virus attacks is mainly the study and compilation of each type
of different characteristics of the virus destruction procedures, on the foundation of mastering the virus destruction
mechanisms, characteristics, as well as the symptoms, studying how the virus or invasion will be implemented, how the
control of the virus will break out, as well as the use of the mastery of the attack opportunities and the attack
methods. The computer network invasion training is mainly the training for how to invade the enemy computer networks,
how to decipher data, how to implement attacks against networks, etc. The main content includes: 1) Suspension training.
The training that implements destruction on the computer network system nodes and the training that suspends the
information transmission circuits. 2) Distortion training. This is mainly the training on changing the data value of
certain data and documents, or improving certain procedures, or fixing the content of some of the information. 3) Posing
training. This is mainly the method of training for posing as the enemy upper level authority or the subordinates, in
order to enter into the enemy information systems and to master and create the skills of confusion [end of page 351].

(2) The joint training of the information operations specialized units (elements)

The information operations joint training is the training that increases the joint campaign information operations
capabilities, integrates the scattered information operations forces and the corresponding elements, and focuses on
striving for and maintaining the battlefield information dominance, and implements a high degree of integration.

# 1. Common fundamental training

The main content includes: the foundational knowledge, theories, and skills of the joint campaign information
operations, the awareness training of the joint campaign information operations, the formation of appropriate joint
campaign fighting ideological and operational functions.

# 2. Mobilization training

This mainly refers to the training of the information operations troops, based on the joint operations command orders,
and the other military services, which commonly implement the mobilization from the realm of waiting for an opportunity
to the realm of predetermined operations. The specific training content includes: march organizations, motorized
mobilization, railway (airborne) transport, air defense and anti-nuclear and biological attacks, troops quickly
occupying the battlefield and organizing the development, electronic camouflage and battlefield protection, etc.

# 3. Information reconnaissance training

This mainly refers to the training of the information reconnaissance, transmission, integration, distribution, and use
for the information operations troops and the other troops. The main content includes: implementing training on the
information collection, transmission, identification and blended skills for each of the reconnaissance troops of the
communications combat swarms; the training implemented on blending the skills of the intelligence collection,
transmission, and identification for each reconnaissance troop of the radar combat swarm; the training implemented on
integrating the handling of the intelligence exchange and the contrasting verification for the communications combat
swarm and the radar combat swarm; the training that integrates the handling of the intelligence exchange and the
contrasting verification between the electronic combat swarms, and the other forces and the technology reconnaissance
forces.

# 4. Combat and command training

This mainly refers to the combat and command training of the information operations groups (swarms), under the unified
command of the joint commands [end of page 352]. The main content includes: the training of the command post (system)
development and connection; the training of the communications combat swarms and the connection, communications, and
operations with the radar combat swarms; the training of the electronics combat group (systems) command flow and the
coordinated command training, etc.

# 5. The integrated information operations training

This mainly refers to the entire training implemented between the command information networks and the support troops,
and on the information operations troops professional departments and their use. The main content includes: the internal
coordinated training of the information operations integrated support systems and the information sharing and joint
support training between the information operations integrated support systems, the higher level authority support
systems, and the other support systems, etc.

# 6. The joint information operations training

This mainly refers to the reconnaissance and interference training implemented on each type of enemy information
systems, based on the different procedures of the joint campaign, and the integrated use of each of the information
operations forces. The main content includes: the coordinated reconnaissance interference training of each of the
groups, the interference training under the intelligence support of each group, and the joint attack and joint defense
training, etc. for the electronics combat groups and the other military services, under the joint campaign background.

7. The joint information operations live troop exercises

This is mainly the overall training that revolves around the offense and defense of the battlefield control for
dominance and development. It fundamental content includes: the first is the training that focuses on achieving the
connection, communications, and mutual operations of the information resource sharing, the characteristics of command
integration, the focus on the intelligence and information systems, the intelligence operations command and control
systems, the firepower attack systems, and the integrated support systems within the joint information operations
system; the second is the training that focuses on the characteristics of effective, real time command and coordination
in the joint information operations systems, and focusing on each of the command structures and the command personnel’s
use of command networks and command automated systems, in order to implement active policy making, quick coordination,
joint commands, and real time control; the third is focusing on regarding the inspection of the information flow and the
mixture of the process of each of the information combat modules and information combat elements as the objective, [end
of page 353] as well as implementing the integrated exercises, campaign, and military tactics exercises in subscales,
subtopics, subphases, and sublevels.

# III. The information operations training of the other units of the joint campaign…354

The main task of the other military units of the joint campaign within the information operations is to implement
information defense. Therefore, the focus of the information operations training is to increase the “training on the
five defenses.”

# (1) The anti-information reconnaissance training

This mainly includes the anti-information reconnaissance training of the combat deployments and operations, and the
anti-reconnaissance monitoring training of the combat information. The anti-monitoring training of the combat
deployments and operations is mainly the training of the troops that implements camouflage and early warning defenses,
and it prevents the enemy personnel from acquiring the intelligence and information from the Chinese military combat
deployments operations. The camouflage training includes: using the topography and the poor climate to disguise;
constructing fortifications in order to implement the camouflage; making reasonable deployments, scattering the
deployments, and spreading out the operations; using smoke screens, camouflage, the concealment of the manpower, using
vegetation to conceal the manpower, and changing the external form of the objectives and the electromagnetic radiation
characteristics, as well as other methods in order to camouflage; setting up decoys, creating false operations to
deceive the enemy personnel, etc. The early warning defense training includes: the methods for organizing defenses
against airborne investigation and reporting networks and ground early warning.

The anti-reconnaissance monitoring training of the information operations is mainly the confidentiality training of the
communications signals. The content includes: (1) Information encryption training, which is the information camouflage
training that implements the alterations of the information, from being obvious to secretive. (2) The information
differentiation training, which is the training that is implemented to verify the legality and effectiveness of the
system or network information exchanges, and the accuracy of the information being exchanged. This includes three types
of training, which are the differentiation of documents and reports, the differentiation of the identities, and the
digital signatures. The training on the differentiation of documents and reports, first of all, is the differentiation
of the content of the documents and reports, which implements training on the agreed upon encryption; second of all, it
is the differentiation of the original source of the documents and reports (outgoing messages), which implements
training on the agreed upon data encryption ciphers and implements training on the agreed upon transmission of the
documents and reports; thirdly, it is the differentiation of the time of the documents and reports, which implements
training on the transmission time procedures of the documents and reports. The training on the identification
differentiation includes the differentiation and the verification training. The differentiation is mainly the training
on the confirmation methods on the person entering the system and the verification primary training is the method for
implementing differentiation on the true or false identities entering the system [end of page 354]. With regard to the
identification differentiation methods: the first is the differentiation of the commands, the second is the
differentiation of the magnetic card, and the third is the differentiation of the biological characteristics, such as
confirming the differentiation of the identities through the verification of people’s fingerprints, retinas, speech, or
handwriting, and other physical characteristics. (3) The information control training, which is the training for
implementing control on the user’s application of the information systems or the information system resources. It mainly
includes two types, the browsing control training and the command control training. The browsing control training is the
training that implements limits on the browsing operations, as well as mastering the implementation of the limits of the
browsing operations of the authorized user entering the computer network systems; the command control training is the
differentiation training implemented on the established commands and the transmissions. (4) The information blocking
training. This is the training that restricts the transmission of information. They must be adept at limiting the
transmission of the information within the regions and time frames, in order to reduce the scope of the scatter, within
the communications systems. For example, it is implemented on the wireless communications, the control and
implementation of silence, etc., on the communications power. (5) The training of the information camouflage. The
training uses strategic measures to create false information, and it is adept at creating each type of false information
on the communications systems, in order to camouflage their own true operations, and this is mainly the training that
opens up the communications systems of the false information or creates changes in the information. For example, it is
implemented in the wireless communications, which is the training that implements sudden fluctuations on the information
from certain directions. The information simulation training is mainly the training that implements the mutual exchange
of accurate and false information in the communications systems. (6) The training on information obstruction. This is
the transmission of large amounts of false information and useless information on the information communications. (7)
The training on multichannel transmission. This is the training method used to provide multiple transmission channels
(information channels or circuits) for the same information. For example, on the wireless communications, the organized
training implemented on the area communications networks, the concealed networks, the complex networks, the backup
networks, the logistics networks, and the on-duty networks.

(2) The training on the anti-electronic attacks

The joint campaign military troops use large amounts of wireless broadcasting stations, radars, and other electronic
information equipment, and it is a major objective of electronic attacks from the enemy. Therefore, the anti-electronic
attack training is the major content of this training. Apart from implementing the anti-electronic attack technology
training on the personnel that will be operating and using the electronic information equipment, [end of page 355] they
should focus on organizing the antielectronic attack technology training well. This includes the wireless communications
anti-interference, radar anti-interference, and anti-photoelectricity interference training.

The wireless communications anti-interference training. This is mainly the training that flexibly uses the
anti-electronic interference on the communications equipment, such as changing the work frequencies and increasing the
radiation signal strength; establishing the concealment of the wireless communications networks (outgoing) and using the
anti-interference specialized connection documents; establishing logistics wireless communications networks (outgoing)
or complex wireless communications; training on the suppression or destruction interference source methods, etc.

The radar anti-interference training. This is mainly the training on the reasonable deployment of the radar network
anti-electronic interference; the training reasonably deploys the different frequency bands and the different radar
systems and organizes them into radar networks; the training uses multiple types of reconnaissance equipment and
sensors; the training combines the methods of the operating technology of the antiinterference, the anti-interference by
changing the frequency, the anti-interference by changing the work systems, the users concealing the work strength, the
use of the blind angle of the interference beams to implement probing, and other methods, during the implementation of
anti-interference on the anti-interference circuits and devices being used.

The training of the anti-interference on the photoelectricity equipment. This mainly includes the training that
reasonably deploys photoelectricity equipment and materials, and conceals the use of the photoelectricity equipment and
materials, etc.

(3) The training on the anti-network attacks

1. The training on the anti-computer virus violations

The most important software and hardware entities on the networks are the servers and work stations. Because of this,
the key to the anti-computer virus violations training is to conduct training on the anti-virus procedures of the work
stations and servers. The work station anti-virus infection training is mainly the training on the software virus
monitoring and removal; and the use of installing anti-virus chips, etc. on the computer virus cards and network
interfaces. The server anti-virus training is mainly the training on the use of the possible anti-virus [software] that
can be loaded onto the modules. [end of page 356]

2. The training on the anti-computer network infiltrations

The main point of the anti-computer network infiltration training is the defense against illegal invasions. The main
training is the use of the network anti-firewall technology. In addition, they also must train on how to avoid
electronic interference, and implement electronic screens and prevent the unintentional leak of electromagnetic signals,
as well as training on how to implement encryption on the systems and data, and other measures, in order to guarantee
the overall reliability of the operational security and data of the systems.

(4) The training of the anti-psychological attacks

With regard to the training of the psychological defenses, the fundamental objectives are to increase the psychological
skills of the trainees, to guarantee the normal activities under combat conditions, and to bring out each type of combat
capabilities of the trainees, to the maximum degree possible. Based on the actual situation of the Chinese military, the
content of the psychological defense training is mainly implemented in the following training, on the foundation that
they understand the equipment and technology of the foreign military psychological warfare, the combat technology
functions, and the combat application methods:

# 1. Battlefield simulation trainings

With regard to the battlefield situations that are set up in an objective and focused manner, they simulate the live
battlefield environments and situations, which allows the trainees to experience a certain degree of the psychological
stimulation of the combat elements, thereby increasing their psychological activity levels, and enhancing their
psychological adaptations, responsibilities, and self-control capabilities.

# (i) Battlefield scene simulations

The possible sounds, lights, smoke, electronics, and other results that can occur on the simulated battlefield pretty
accurately play up the battlefield atmosphere, which stimulates the feelings of the sights, sounds, and smells of the
trainees, which allows the trainees to have an actual battlefield situation that they are facing, and they can gradually
adapt to these battlefield situations, thereby reducing the psychological weight that it can bring.

# (ii) Battlefield psychological simulations

The set up of the complex and ever-changing enemy situations increases the degree of danger of the combat circumstances,
and with regard to the set up of the dangerous obstacles, it increases the capabilities for psychologically adapting to
each type of interference elements, and trains the trainees in complex and [end of page 357] dangerous situations.

# (iii) Strong battlefield stimulation simulations

For example, if we let the trainees enter into a secure fortification that has a secure protective layer, then they can
carry out an artillery cover attack, and experience the tense feelings and terror of the artillery raids. They must
arrange the training under dangerous conditions, such as the training that exists in the field, night time training, organized troops participating
in rescues, implementing each type of critical and emergency tasks, etc.

# 2. The training that exists in the field

Throwing the trainees into dense forests, isolated islands, deserts, the Gobi desert, and other extremely harsh
environments, allows the trainees to experience the positive influence of the harsh natural conditions; throwing the
trainees into environments of live exercises allows the trainees to personally feel the threat of death; putting the
trainees into isolated and helpless environments, with limited food and water, allows the trainees to experience the
trials of life and death and to temper themselves to strengthen their willpower and enhance their stamina. When the
situations allow, they can also arrange and organize the trainee implementation of parachute, diving in shallow seas,
cave exploration, rowing a dugout canoe, climbing scaling ladders, and other training.

# 3. Self-adjustment training

With regard to leading the trainees, based on the training, the combat situations, as well as the characteristics of the
changes in one’s own psychological beliefs, they should adopt the measures of adjustment and control of their
physiological beliefs, in a conscious and active way, in order to bring out and maintain psychological stability. For
example, they can organize the trainees so that they consciously do a few psychologically relaxing activities, which
will alleviate the degree of tension in their muscles, eliminate the tension or panic in their psychological feelings,
and maintain their coordinated development of themselves. Within the gaps in the training and combat, they should
appropriately do a few activities that relax their own muscles, such as push-ups, calisthenics, an appropriate amount of
running and jumping, and other exercises that relax the muscles, in order to transform their tense psychological
conditions. They can also implement trainings to desensitize their emotions and increase the psychological quality of
the trainees. They can first allow the trainees to recall their experiences or all of the fearful situations that they
have seen, in order to induce their production of tense feelings, and when these tense feelings reach a certain level,
they can again lead them to recall these they can then think of the situations that are happy and relaxed which lead
them to be happy, and thereby, vigorously use [end of page 358] these feelings to replace or extinguish the tense
feelings.

# (5) The anti-data destruction training

This mainly includes the reasonable and dispersed deployment of the electronic information equipment and materials, as
well as the adoption of evasion activities, etc., in order to combat the data destruction methods that the enemy
implements against the Chinese electromagnetic infrastructures and equipment.

# Section 3: Joint Campaign Information Operations Training Methods…359

There are large differences that exist between each of the military services of the joint campaign information
operations forces, between each of the specialties in the military services, and between each of the levels of the
combat forces, in the organization and implementation of the information operations. This causes there to be differences
between the information operations training and the other military training, in their degree of difficulty with the
organization of the training. Therefore, the joint campaign information operations troops, with regard to the
organization of their training, must combine the actual situations of their own units and the specialized areas that are
subordinate to them, and they must combine each level of flexible and elective training organization methods in the
training, in order to practically enhance the training effectiveness.

# I. The collective deliberation style training…359

The collective deliberation style training refers to a type of method that organizes the information operations training
through the assembly of the research, discussions, and other forms, and it is a format that focuses on implementing
concentrated research and tackling the key problems in the areas of focus for the information operations exercises. The
objective is to fully bring out the function of the wisdom of the group, and to work as a team to resolve the topics and
points of difficulty. The first is that they must look for the main issues and difficulties in the information
operations training. They must be involved in understanding and mastering the present conditions of the troop
information operations training, they must genuinely analyze the key segments to restricting the information operations
training of the troops, and they must establish objectives, content, methods, and steps of the deliberations, on this
foundation. The second is that they must master the opportunities of the collective deliberations. The energy of the
implications of the collective deliberations cadre backbone is quite large [end of page 359], and it should not be
organized often, but it should be implemented in key phases during the information operations phase training. This way,
it will be convenient to go through the exercises promptly to discover and resolve the issues, and it is also convenient
to promptly lead and deepen the next steps in the training. The third is that they must use the deliberation results to
promptly guide the training exercises. They must promptly organize the implementation of the generalization scanning of
the specialized people on the topics of the discussions. They must pull out the methods and measures for practical
management and with the guided training exercises, and they must push the information operations training into deeper
development.

# II. The mutual help and mutual study mode training…360

The mutual help and mutual study mode training is the implementation of cyclical trainings to break through the
restrictions of the current systems and specialties of the military services, to commonly use the information training
resources, and to adopt the methods of going on visits to study and having guests come lecture. The first is that they
must development the mutual help and mutual study between the military areas. The military use information technology is
developed on the foundation of the civilian use information technology, and the information technology is blend of
military and civilian use. Therefore, the troops must actively put forth requirements with the local electronics,
telecommunications, information engineering, and other institute (research institutes) systems, and based on the
advanced technology superiority and rich resource forces, organize the studies and training. They must also provide
exercise bases to the institutes and universities. The second is that they must develop the mutual help and mutual study
between the specialties. The information operations trainings involve various types of military service specialties, and
there is a high degree of scatter, especially in a few of the specialties of the smaller military services, and the
training, organization, and support is difficult. Because of this, they can adopt measures that cross over the systems,
are based on the specialties, and divide the regions, in order to organize each of the types of information operations
specialized collective troops, in a more convenient way, in order to concentrate and organize the training, in order to
mutually train on contract and in order to fully bring out the pros of each of the troops and to train the resources
effectively. The third is that they must develop mutual help and mutual studies across the military services. Following
the development of the Chinese military equipment technology, each type of new information operations equipment and
materials has continuously been allocated to the troops. They must encourage breaking through the boundaries of the
military services, expanding their development of the mutual help and mutual study between each of the military services
and the military troops, they must organize the studies of new equipment and train on the opponents training and the
corresponding coordination, and they must accomplish the common increase in the mutual training and benefits [end of
page 360].

# III. The centralization of the base mode training…361

The centralization of the base mode training is a type of training method that uses the information operations training
centers of the specialties, and rotates the training of each type of information operations personnel, in a planned
fashion. This type of training center normally uses a complete set and a large scale of information operations training
facilities and they can provide the information operations command personnel, specialized personnel, and information
equipment operations within the applied training, with the implementation of theoretical research and discussions, on
the information equipment operation functions and information combat, and technology functions. On one hand they must
combine the actual situations of the training for all of the military information operations, and they must construct an
information operations training center that has organized technology, war tactics training, and live troop exercise
functions.

# IV. The network system mode training…361

The network system mode training refers to the use of computer distribution network systems to implement information
technology and tactical training. The general headquarters unified military training information networks and three
networks, as well as the local area networks that each of the troops and universities have established for the overall
military, develop the integrated training of the information operations networks and create beneficial conditions. They
must fully use the command automated established results that have already been established to significantly develop the
networked training. On one hand they must develop the online exercises by mainly adopting the formats of single party
technology work and the combat operations, based on the formulation and organization of single and multi stage online
work, and they must temper and increase their leading cadre and organizational information operations capabilities; or
they must implement multi military service, cross-system, and cross theater information operations specialized training
or joint campaign topic exercises carried out by the general headquarters or the military region. On the other hand,
they must develop the online schooling, which fully develops the use of each of the types of networks and databases of
the Chinese military, sets up the networked universities, and organizes the online lectures, tutorials, studies, work,
and other institute activities, in order to expand the aspects that receive study and to increase the network
effectiveness [end of page 361].

# V. The live troop exercise mode training…362

The live troop exercises mode training is on-site live troop simulated operations exercises of the units (elements) of
the upper levels that attend the training, under unified organization, that regard the joint operations as the
background, and focus on the common training topics, in order to implement mutual hypotheses for the enemy conditions.
The live troop mode training is the higher-level format of the information operations training, which is used in the
overall training to increase the overall information operations capabilities of the troops. First of all, they must
insist upon the principles of horizontal combinations and gradual combination. After the troops have accomplished the
information operations fundamental task training tasks, each specialized troop can combine together. They must regard
the elements as the units organizing their own level of military service specialized tactical and applied training, and
they must organize from the single specialty to the multiple types of specialty layers, and from the single military
services to the gradual integrated training of the various military services. This achieves the combination of the
current technology measures and the tactical measures, in order to lay a foundation for the live troop joint exercises.
Second of all, they must implement the objective and impartial result evaluations and rulings. Under the conditions of
all of the services not unifying the information operations training evaluations standards, the result evaluations of
the live troop joint formation exercises are a difficult point, so they must establish a scientific quantization
evaluation standard, in order to strive for a transformation from the manmade evaluation and rulings to the computerized
automated evaluations and rulings. The live troop joint exercises can adopt the integrated method of the manmade and
computerized automated evaluations and rulings in order to implement tem, by using the objective and impartial
evaluations and rulings.

# Section 4: The Requirements of the Joint Campaign Information Operations Training…362

The joint campaign information operations training has highly scientific content, a vast scope of training involvement,
high training environment set up requirements, highly difficult training result evaluations, and other characteristics.
This puts forth even higher requirements for the information operations training. The requirements to make confirmations
about and grasp the knowledge have an important significance to organizing the information operations training well.
[end of page 362]

# I. They must establish a scientific operating mechanism and strengthen the training supervision…363

First they must establish a unified and effective organized training structure. The organization, planning,
coordination, and control of the information operations training are relatively complex systems. They should abide by
the principles of “making the warfare and the training identical, and combining the wartime and peacetime.” They should
establish an information operations organized training structure and strive for making adaptions to the current command
system. Normally the headquarters leadership takes the lead and the work training, intelligence, communications,
information operations (electronic warfare), and the corresponding personnel from the artillery troop departments are
the priority, they recruit the leadership from the other military services and departments to participate, and they
guarantee the authoritativeness, comprehensiveness, and the coordination of the leadership structure. The second is that
they must establish scientific regulations. Based on the requirements of the joint campaign for the information
operations, and based on the training regulations, they must genuinely research the topics, content, division of order,
quality standards, and reward and punishment measures, etc., in order to formulate the detailed principles to implement
the training, and to standardize “who will do the training, how it will be trained, to what extent it will be studied,”
and other issues of the information operations training. They must establish a plan, coordination, situational analyses,
evaluations, and other regulations of the information operations training, to form a strict, standardized, and unified
training system, to accurately grasp the training work of the information operations, and to put it onto a standardized
and legalized path. The third is that they must strengthen the training monitoring. In order to successfully implement
the information operations training, they must establish an appropriate information operations coordination and
supervision system, to clearly determine the responsibilities, and to specifically implement supervision and guidance
over the organizational training structure of the training and of the personnel that participate. The departments that
are responsible for the tasks of the supervision training pass down the training tasks, they coordinate each of the
relationships between the organized training structures and the units that are participating in the training, and they
urge the implementation of the training tasks, based on the unified topics, the unified steps, and the unified
requirements; they delve into the training so they can genuinely guide the implementation of the training content for
the units participating in the training. They promptly coordinate and resolve each of the types of contradictions and
issues that arise during the training, and they combine the training assessments. They implement effective supervision
and inspection guidance for the training situations, and they practically increase the training quality.

# II. They must set up a lifelike training environment and stay close to operational realities…363

The first is that they must set up “true” training environments. They must extensively use the current information
operations equipment and materials [end of page 363], they must fully explore the potential of the current equipment and
materials, and they must adopt “live equipment simulations,” “a small amount representing many,” “using simulations to
set up the real thing,” “using the ground to represent the sea,” and other measures, in order to construct lifelike
information operations combat situations. They must especially focus on setting up the environment for the satellite
reconnaissance, electronic interference, computer virus attacks, anti radiation attacks, psychological warfare, and
other battlefield threats, which allow the training to be even better at coming close to the actual combat
circumstances. The second is that they must set up “strong” combat opponents. Within the future information operations,
our combat opponents, regardless of whether it is in the aspect of information operations force compilation or the
weaponry functions, or of whether they are in the aspects of information operations theoretical research and tactical
technology application, they are all even higher than the Chinese military. This requires that we, during the
organization of the information operations training, must objectively reflect the gap between the situations of the
enemy and our combat. We must not only set up the information operations technology equipment (materials) of the
advanced information operations technology of the opponent, and fully reflect the information operations
characteristics, but we must also reflect the other advanced operations theories and methods in a lifelike, flexible,
and objective format, in the exercises, and strengthen the set up of the formidable foe. The third is that they must set
up the “connection” between the forces that attend the training. The future joint campaign information operations are
implemented under the joint operations background, and each type of combat force jointly implements the essentials of
the information operations. The land, sea, air, space, and electromagnetic threedimensional spaces are comprehensively
developed and the air warfare, sea warfare, and land warfare are infiltrated and are jointly mixed, and the joint
campaign is the fundamental support. The organization and implementation of the information operations training must
adapt to the developmental trends of the joint operations, it must regard the common operations tasks as the draw, they
must focus on the command, coordination, support, and war tactics of the exercises in the information operations, under
the joint operations background and training topics, and enhanced the training focus.

# III. They must strengthen the command capabilities training and give prominence to training on key points…364

The first is that they must strengthen the command capabilities training of the information operations commanders. The
command capabilities of the information operations commanders are the concentrated reflection of the overall combat
capabilities of the information operations. With regard to the guiding ideology, they must focus on the training of the
complex type command personnel and troops, they must focus on the a training that is the mixture of the “command,
technology, and staff,” and they must fully increase the joint planning [end of page 364], organized command, and
information defense capabilities of the information operations commanders. With regard to the organization of the
training, they must unify the planning and unify the organization. When the conditions allow, they can invite other
military services to participate, and they must regard the classroom work and online training as the main organization
and implementation. The second is that they must focus on various military service joint field training. They must
insist upon the principles of it “being convenient for the organization and management, being convenient for the
coordination of the various military services, and being convenient for the implementation and use of the
communications. They must adopt the methods of unified organization and layered implementation, and they must organize
the field training for each of the information operations troops (elements). When the conditions are right, they can
combine the exercises and the annual training tasks, they can enhance the coordination of the navy, air force, and
second artillery troops, they can implement the joint warfare and joint training of the various military service
information operations, and they can genuinely research and resolve the difficulties and issues within the joint
information operations. The third is that they must appropriately organize the information operations theoretical group
training and online simulation trainings. During the planning work, they must make arrangements for the specialized
training after the development or the specialized tactical training before the development; they must appropriately
organize the information operations theoretical group training, and implement information operations theoretical
training for the organizers and the backbone of participants of the information operations. Afterwards, they must fully
use the current military training information networks (or command three networks) and the visual conference systems, to
significantly develop the online joint exercise trainings. This type of method of intangibly using the field
communications equipment does not organize the field training, its influence is relatively small, and it is easy to
organize and implement in a planned way during peacetime. During the specific implementation process, they must focus on
appropriately organizing the training evaluations and guaranteeing the training steps, based on the training process.

# IV. They must divide the different training targets and innovate the training methods…365

During the information operations, they must adopt corresponding training methods, based on the different combat tasks
and the responsibilities that each type of personnel is capable of being responsible for, in order to reach the most
optimum training results. The first is that they must divide the intelligence reconnaissance, electronic combat, network
combat, psychological combat, data destruction, etc. into small groups, based on the operations tasks that they are
responsible for; the second is that they must implement divisions based on the information collection, the information
transmission, the information processing, the information distribution, as well as the use, and other segments of the
information operations personnel; the third is that they must divide the information operations commanders and agency
personnel, based on the different levels. Regardless of what principle it is based off of, implementing the division of
the small groups [end of page 365] must be based on the different types of levels of the personnel, and the training
content must have focus, in order to achieve relatively good results.

During the information operations training, they must fully use the advanced technology measures, to greatly use and
create modern scientific methods, to use advanced technology results to optimize the training content and process, and
to increase the quality of the information operations training. Therefore, the first is that they must carry forward the
essence of the traditional training methods. The traditional training methods are the scientific method that has been
combined from the long term training and its various methods are also used in the information operations training, such
as the lecture methods, research and discussion methods, specialized topic methods of the theoretical study, etc. These
few went through the verification of the exercises, which the traditional training methods of the scientific
verification were continued to be used. The second is that they must create new training methods. The swift and violent
development of the scientific technology and the continuous changes in the division of the personnel must lead to the
emergence of new training methods, they must strictly follow the development of the advanced technology, they must
deeply research the situations of the fundamental qualities of the information operations personnel, and they must
continuously renew the training methods of the information operations training even more. For example, through the
establishment of the information operations equipment training, they have the simulated and lifelike systems, they have
improved the information operations theoretical study software, they have fully used the current network facilities, and
they have significantly developed the online training, and other methods, which continuously increases the effectiveness
of the information operations training.

This page intentionally left blank.

# Chapter 22 Joint Campaign Information Operations Building…367

Joint campaign information operations (IO) building signifies the research {yanjiu} and preparations carried out in many
respects, including operational theory, weapons and equipment {wuqi zhuangbei}, talent cultivation $\{ ren cai pei yan g
\}$ , and battlefield and strength building {zhanchang, liliang jianshe}. This mainly includes the following: joint
campaign IO theoretical research, IO weapons and equipment building, IO talent cultivation, IO battlefield construction,
and IO strength building.

# Section 1: Joint Campaign IO Theoretical Research…367

Joint campaign IO theory has an important guiding role $\{ xia nda o \ zuo yon g \}$ for all work of a joint campaign.
It can be said that joint campaign IO theoretical preparations are the foundation of and a prerequisite {qianti} for all
preparations for joint campaign IO.

# I. Significance of joint campaign IO theoretical research…367

The practice of historical development has proven that whether military theory is advanced or not advanced influences
the armed forces’ prospects and victory or defeat in war. Hence, strengthening research on IO theory has important
significance for seizing success in future joint campaign IO.

(1) Objective requirements {yaoqiu} for joint campaign IO practice

The recent several local wars have made clear that IO already has developed into an all-new [end of page 367]
operational form $\{ zuo zha nxi ngs h i \}$ , and, speaking in a certain sense, the success or failure of IO directly
influences the progress {jincheng} and outcome $\{ jie j u \}$ of the joint campaign. It is thus clear that it is
difficult for traditional operational theory to satisfy the development of joint campaign IO, which inevitably requires
the guidance $\{ zhi dao \}$ of new operational theory. From the viewpoint of the high ground of gaining victory in
informationized war {xinxihua zhanzheng} and contending $\{ zhe ngd u o \}$ in the future for our military’s joint
campaign information dominance {zhixinxiquan}, as well as the high ground of the trans-century development of unit
building $\{ bud uij ian she \}$ , strengthening joint campaign IO theoretical research has farreaching real
significance.

# (2) Inevitable requirements for joint campaign IO strength building

Using theory to pull building is an important embodiment of bringing into play the guiding role of theory. At present,
our military’ joint campaign IO strength building still evinces many inadequacies. How to build the various types of
strengths and on what scale they are to be activated urgently need advanced, scientific theory, conforming to our
military’s reality, in order to have standards $\{ gui fan \}$ and guidance. Joint campaign IO strength building
involves a wide range [of issues]. It not only includes the IO unit task organization $\{ bud uib ian che n g \}$ , but
also involves the construction of the command system of systems [SoS] $\{ zhi hui tix i \}$ ; it not only includes the
optimized combination of operational strengths, but also involves the production and application {shengchan, yingyong}
of weapons and equipment; and it not only includes issues of the insertion of technology and funds, but also involves
many real major $\{ zho ngd a \}$ problems such as talent cultivation. If mistakes and deviations occur in building
decision-making {jianshe juece}, not only would there be great waste and severe losses, but it also would delay the
progress of our military’s joint campaign IO capabilities building. Hence, strengthening research on the major
theoretical problems of our military’s joint campaign IO strength building has unusually important significance for
doing a good job of joint campaign IO unit building, equipment development, and talent cultivation.

(3) Needs and requirements $\{ xuy a o \}$ for constructing a joint campaign IO theory SoS {lilun tixi}

Today, the US military has already entered the IO practice phase under IO regulations and standards {tiaoling guifan}.
In adapting to this, our military’s newgeneration regulations have formally brought IO into their midst. In particular,
Chinese People’s Liberation Army [CPLA] Joint Campaign Information Operations Guidelines {gangyao} already regards IO as
important content of a joint campaign, and has laid out standards for IO in terms of laws and regulations $\{ fag u i
\}$ . It is thus clear that, following on the constant development of our military’s IO practice and theory, [end of
page 368] the result is the development of joint campaign IO theory in the direction of multiple levels and the
integrated whole {duocengci, zhengtihua}. This IO activity {huodong}, involving the overall situation $\{ qua nju \}$
and affecting all aspects, urgently requires systematic joint campaign IO theory to serve as guidance. Constructing a
joint campaign IO theory SoS, in basic theory and applied theory respects, is an enormous impetus to IO practice
activity, and is an enrichment and development of joint campaign operational theory. It also is an important measure for
boosting our military’s joint campaign IO capabilities.

# II. Main content of joint campaign IO theoretical research…369

Joint campaign IO is an all-new thing, and a good many new situations and new problems urgently await our conducting of
research to resolve them. At present, joint campaign IO theoretical research must focus on basics, lay stress on
application, and concentrate its efforts {下功夫 xia gongfu} on constructing a complete joint campaign IO theory SoS.

(1) Recognizing the joint campaign IO characteristics and laws {tedian yu guilyu}

Today, IO activity already has experienced a development process from low level to high level, and from practice to
theory, and has composed a relatively perfect theory SoS. However, at the joint campaign bedrock $\{ cen gmi a n \}$ , how to recognize and grasp the characteristics and
laws of IO is a new topic $\{ ket i \}$ again facing us. On the future joint campaign IO battlefield, the operational
means will even more tend toward the advanced; the operational modes {zuozhan fangshi} will be diverse; the battlefield
will be highly transparent; the operational time effectiveness quality {zuozhan shixiaoxing} will be enhanced; the
force-strength disposition $\{ bin gli bus h u \}$ density will decrease; command will have a high degree of
adjusting-coordination $\{ xie tia o \}$ ; strategic-, campaign-, and tactical-level operations {zhanlue zhanyi he
zhanshuji zuozhan} will be fused into an organic whole $\{ yit i \}$ ; and the demarcation lines {jiexian} between the
military and civilians and between the front and the rear will be blurred. Joint campaign IO’s new forms, new fighting
methods $\{ zha n f \tilde { a } \}$ , new organizational structure $\{ bia nzh i \}$ , and new management and training
$\left\{ xun lia n \right\}$ require us to use new modes of thinking {siwei fangshi} to deliberate on and explore them.
Researching in depth the main features {tezheng} of joint campaign IO, and grasping its characteristics and laws, are
prerequisites for gaining success in joint campaign IO, and also are the basic foundation for IO unit building. Only by
thorough research on the joint campaign IO characteristics and laws can [we] in some targeted fashion {放矢地 fangshidi} do
a good job of the various preparations for joint campaign IO. [end of page 369]

(2) Exploring {tansuo} joint campaign IO fighting methods

Focusing on future joint campaign IO characteristics, and researching and innovating new fighting methods mutually
adapted to them, are objective requirements for seizing battlefield information dominance. At present, the key points
$\{ zho ngd ian \}$ of IO fighting methods studies are the need to mutually combine the general laws of war with the
specific {juti} situations in our future joint campaign IO, to mutually combine them with the influence of information
technology [IT] {xinxi jishu} on strategy and tactics, to mutually combine them with the management and social situation
of the theater {zhanqu}, and, on the basis of scientifically analyzing the enemy and friendly sides’ $\{ diw osh uan gfa
n g \}$ situation, focusing on the characteristics and development of war, and researching fighting methods conforming
to and adapted to the joint campaign IO laws. Hence, in terms of research on and application of fighting methods, [we]
must realize four conversions: first, in terms of the basic points of fighting methods research, is the need to convert
from research on the general fighting methods of IO to joint campaign IO fighting methods research. Second, in terms of
the center of gravity [COG] {重心 zhongxin} of fighting methods research, is the need to convert from the past special
stress on carrying forward the traditional fighting methods to laying stress on researching new fighting methods such as
“soft and hard integration” {“ruanying yiti”} and “network sabotage and severing the chain” {“powang duanlian”}. Third,
in terms of the content of fighting methods research, is the need to convert from the past bias towards a stratagem
color {moulue secai} in fighting methods to increasing the high-tech content of fighting methods, and realizing unity of
technology and strategy {技谋合一 jimou heyi}. Fourth, in terms of the methods of fighting methods research, is the need to
convert from the past special stress on theoretical research to a mutual combination of theory and practice activity, such as confrontations with troops {shibing duikang} and simulation drills {moni yanlian}.

(3) Researching the applied theory of joint campaign IO

The applied theory of joint campaign IO is the critical link {guanjian huanjie} in the change from joint campaign IO
theory to combat power {zhandouli}. The basic mission of applied theoretical research is to make replies to the IO
principles and methods under various operational patterns $\{ zuo zha nya ngs h i \}$ , i.e., to research the question
of “what is to be done” within future joint campaign IO. Combining the reality of war development with actual research
on fighting methods for the building of our military is the fundamental avenue for boosting the practicality {实用性
shiyongxing} of IO theory. At present, [we] must focus on the features of joint campaign IO activities $\{ xin gdo n g
\}$ , and discuss $\{ tan tao \}$ how to implement IO within joint campaigns. In particular, [we] must center on the
actual military struggle {douzheng} preparations; keep grounded in the existing organizational structure equipment
{bianzhi zhuangbei} and its near-term possible development; and lay stress on [end of page 370] research on operational
patterns such as the joint firepower strike campaign, island blockade campaign {daoyu fengsuo zhanyi}, island offensive
campaign {daoyu jingong zhanyi}, air defense campaign {fangkong zhanyi}, and border defense campaign {bianjing fangyu
zhanyi}, as well as issues such as IO characteristics and laws, operational guidance, command and coordination $\{ zhi
hui yux iet ong \}$ , and strength application with activities to resist the powerful enemy’s military intervention, so
as to do a good job in the IO applied theory preparations for gaining victory in local war under informationized
conditions {xinxihua tiaojianxiade jubu zhanzheng}.

# Section 2: Joint Campaign IO Weapons and Equipment Building…371

Weapons and equipment are the material $\{ wuz h i \}$ basis for seizing victory in war. Joint campaign IO weapons and
equipment building means the need to focus on the real needs and requirements of future joint campaign IO, and, in all
of the preparatory work done in respects such as the development $\{ yan zhi \}$ , production, and application of
weapons and equipment, to ensure the material conditions for seizing joint campaign information dominance.

# I. Requirements for joint campaign IO weapons and equipment building…371

(1) Getting into shape the ideas {理清…思路 liqing… silu} on joint campaign IO weapons and equipment building

The characteristics of joint campaign IO determine the ideas on and development direction of weapons and equipment
building. From the viewpoint of development trends, the form-state of war {zhanzheng xingtai} is increasingly
informationized, and campaign operations also have undergone very great changes. Among them, in terms of the operational COG, it has shifted from seeking firepower superiority as primary to seeking information superiority {xinxi
youshi}. In terms of the operational means, it has shifted from traditional force-strength confrontation $\{ bin gli dui
kan g \}$ to confrontation with a mutual combination of “soft kill” $\{ \stackrel { \scriptscriptstyle . . . } { rua n }
sha sha n g \prime \}$ and “hard destruction” {“ying cuihui”} with IO as primary. In terms of operational time and space
$\{ zuo zha n \ shi kon g \} .$ , it has shifted from the traditional three dimensions of land, sea, and air $\{ l u ,$
, hai, kong sanwei} to the land, sea, air, space, and electromagnetic [EM] multidimensional field $\{ l u ,$ hai, kong,
tian, dian duowei lingyu}. The enormous changes in the form-state of joint campaign operations inevitably bring about a
new transformation in IO weapons and equipment building, and also require us to adopt new ideas and modes to work out an
approach {mouhua} to the weapons and equipment building ideas [train of thought]. At present, [we] should take the joint
campaign IO characteristics as the pulling force, closely attend to the demonstration $\{ lun zhe n g \}$ and
development $\{ yan zhi \}$ of a series of weapons and equipment for IO, [end of page 371] and as rapidly as possible
form serialization $\{ xil ieh u a \}$ of the weapons and equipment. With development of IO means as a point of
penetration $\{ tup oko u \}$ , [we] should closely attend to the building of electronic warfare [EW] {dianzizhan} and
network warfare $\{ wan glu ozh a n \}$ weapons and equipment, and as rapidly as possible form weapons and equipment
integration {yitihua}. With IO attack activities $\{ gon gji xin gdo n g \}$ as the leading factor, [we] should closely
attend to the development {yanzhi} and production of information offense {xinxi jingong} equipment; and with campaign
equipment as the main body, [we] should closely attend to forming IO equipment with strategic, campaign, and tactical
[levels fused] into an organic whole {zhanlue, zhanyi he zhanshu yu yiti}, and thus boost the benefit of weapons and
equipment building.

(2) Laying stress on the key points of joint campaign IO weapons and equipment building

In recent years, our military, in view of the needs and requirements of future informationized war, has built and
developed a group of IO equipment with a high degree of informatization $\{ xin xih uac hen gdu \}$ and having our
military’s characteristics, and also has achieved major breakthroughs in some cutting-edge fields {jianduan lingyu}.
However, starting out from adapting to the needs $\{ xuq i u \}$ of future joint campaign IO, these pieces of equipment
are small and scattered $\{ xia o \ ers a n \}$ , and have not formed [any] scale; this has severely restricted and
influenced the generation of campaign IO capability. Hence, in order to adapt to the development trend in the
application of joint campaign IO, while continuing to develop tactical IO weapons and equipment, [we] must in a manner
having key points build campaign-level IO weapons and equipment. For example, “in order to sabotage {pohuai} the enemy’s
space and airborne {kongjian, kongzhong} strategic and campaign detection and early warning systems {tance yujing
xitong}, [we] must energetically develop strategic and campaign information warfare [IW] weapons {xinxizhan wuqi} to
attack the early warning satellites, early warning aircraft, and ground long-range detection and early warning radar
{dimian yuancheng tance yujing leida}, so as to paralyze {tanhuan} the enemy’s intelligence and reconnaissance SoS
{qingbao zhencha tixi}, and sabotage the enemy’s war preparations. In order to sabotage the enemy’s command and control
[C2] {zhihui kongzhi} and communication systems, [we] must energetically develop space {kongjian} IO weapons, directed energy weapons [DEWs]
{dingxiang neng wuqi}, and network attack weapons {wangluo gongji wuqi} to attack communication satellites {tongxin
weixing} and reconnaissance, early warning, and navigation satellites, and [develop] strategic and campaign IO weapons
as confrontation means to sabotage electric power systems and radio and TV systems, so as to paralyze the enemy C2
systems, and cut apart {gelie} the enemy operational SoS {zuozhan tixi}.”22 On this basis, combined with our military’s
[end of page 372] original IO weapons and equipment, [we can] form a serialized, integrated, and scalable {guimohua}
weapons and equipment SoS adapted to joint campaign needs and requirements.

(3) Exploring models {moshi} for joint campaign IO weapons and equipment building

As compared to the developed nations, our military in IO weapons and equipment respects is fairly weak in the
foundation, and relatively backward in technology. Thus, exploring models suited to building of our military’s own
weapons and equipment has important significance for reducing our military’s gap with foreign militaries, and for
accelerating the development of our military’s IO equipment technology. At present, under circumstances where military
funding {junfei} is limited, weapons and equipment building cannot “sow seeds on the ground” in all places {到处 “撒胡椒面”
daochu “sa hujiao mian”}. It must persevere in leaving some things undone in order to get some things done {有所为, 有所不为
yousuo wei, yousuo buwei}; scientific demonstration and careful selection of projects; concentrating on the key points
and sparing no effort to break through; conscientiously spurring on the integrated-whole development of our military’s
IO weapons and equipment SoS; truly achieving “more bang for the buck” {“ 少花钱, 多办事” “shao huaqian, duo banshi”}; and
moving along a model of weapons and equipment rapid development with “fairly low investment and fairly high benefit.” In
terms of the building path, [we must] overcome the “hot-pursuit style” {“尾追式” “weizhuishi”} development model, and
emphasize innovative development; in terms of the building key points, [we must] emphasize development of strategic- and
campaignlevel IO equipment into a SoS; and in terms of the building steps, [we must] first build the equipment urgently
needed and required for actual military struggle preparations, and then develop a long-term, full set {peitao} of
weapons and equipment. In terms of application of technology, [we must] give precedence {youxian} to developing critical
technologies which can produce the maximum linkage [coupling] effect {zuida liandong xiaoying} and demonstration effect
{shifan zuoyong}.

# II. Main content of joint campaign IO weapons and equipment building…373

Under circumstances where financial resources are limited and the technology gap is fairly great, our military’s joint
campaign IO equipment development must emphasize taking operational needs as the pulling force; go down the path of a
mutual combination of development $\{ yan zhi \}$ , importation, and transformation $\{ gai zao \}$ ; within building,
uphold the principle of leaving some things undone in order to get some things done; place the key points on doing well
in the building of the main battle equipment for EW and network warfare; and attach importance to metasynthesis {zonghe
jicheng} and full complements $\{ pei tao \}$ of IO equipment, to gradually form an integrated {yitihua} IO equipment
SoS with “assassin’s mace” equipment {“shashoujian” zhuangbei} as the backbone, with third-generation equipment as the
main body, with integrated network and electronic [warfare] [INEW] equipment {wangdian yiti zhuangbei} as the key
points, with a composition of all levels {ge cengci} (strategic, campaign, and tactical), with mutual linkup {xianghu
xianjie} of all services {junzhong}, and with integrated-whole full complements of equipment {zhengti peitao}. [end of
page 373]

(1) Metasynthesis and full-complement building of IO equipment

Metasynthesis and full-complement building of IO equipment mainly means focusing on boosting systematic operational
effectiveness {xitong zuozhan xiaoneng}; via research and development [R&D] {yanfa} of and allocation of area (zone) EW
{quyu dianzi duikang} C2 systems, implementing interconnection and intercommunication {hulian hutong} technical
transformation of IO equipment; exploiting $\{ kai f a \}$ software for intelligence processing {qingbao chuli},
decision-making and command {juece zhihui}, and management and control {guanli kongzhi}; and forming an IO system with
the C2 system as the core, with the intelligence and reconnaissance system as assisting support $\{ zhi yua n \}$ , with
the IO platforms as the main body, and with electronic information systems as the binding link {niudai}, to realize
integration of reconnaissance and intelligence, C2, electronic attack {dianzi jingong}, and electronic defense {dianzi
$fan gyu \}$ . At the same time, it must strengthen the full-complement building of main battle equipment and support
equipment, and of operational equipment and training equipment, to ensure as rapidly as possible helping the system to
form an operational capability.23

(2) R&D of “assassin’s mace” equipment and third-generation main battle equipment

Doing well in R&D of “assassin’s mace” equipment and third-generation main battle equipment mainly involves embracing
R&D of high-performance space confrontation [space warfare] {hangtian duikang}, satellite jamming $\{ wei xin gga nra o \}$ , and data link jamming
{shuju lian ganrao} systems and integrated network and electronic” [INEW] comprehensive operational platforms; embracing
development {yanzhi} of new-mechanism and new-concept {xinjili, xingainian} information weapons and equipment such as
[EM] pulse bombs [E-bombs] {maichong zhadan}, highperformance laser weapons $\{ jig uan gwu q i \}$ , and kinetic-energy
anti-satellite [ASAT] weapons {dongneng fanweixing wuqi}; and tackling the key technical problem {jishu gongguan} of
wireless virus attack means {wuxian bingdu gongji shouduan}. [This work] must boost the tactical technical
characteristics {zhanshu jishu xingneng} of the main battle electronic equipment, including R&D of high-power,
wide-frequency-domain {pinyu kuan}, compact, high-maneuverability {jidong nengli qiang} electronic jamming equipment
{dianzi ganrao zhuangbei}, with the key points on developing airborne electronic jamming platforms {jizai kongzhong
dianzi ganrao pingtai}, so as to boost operational effectiveness. It must apply integrated means {zonghe shouduan} for
technical demonstration, simulation testing {moni shiyan}, and actual equipment testing {shizhuang jianyan}; strengthen
real-combat testing {shizhanhua jianyan} of the performance of new equipment for IO; and ensure that the technology is
advanced, reliable in performance, and effective in real combat.

(3) Informationized transformation {xinxihua gaizao} of existing weapons and equipment

Applying advanced technology to carry out informationized transformation of existing weapons and equipment is a
universal practice $\{ zuo f a \}$ in the refitting and generational upgrading {gaizhuang huandai} in armed forces of
nations around the world. For example, the US military, via its practice of “putting new wine into old bottles,” [end of
page 374] carried out informationized transformation of its B-52 bombers {hongzhaji} and preserved the advanced quality
of their performance, precisely a case in point. Our military, in terms of a specific avenue for carrying out advanced
technical transformation of existing IO equipment, can adopt the method of a mutual combination of internal embedding
{内部嵌入 neibu qianru} and external integration $\{ wai buj ich eng \}$ . By embedding and fusing IT, or adding information
devices to carry out transformation and replacement of some components {bujian} of existing single pieces of weapons and
equipment, their performance is improved. By exploiting IT and horizontal integration $\{ hen gxi ang yit ihu a \}$
technology to carry out metasynthesis of originally discrete existing weapons and equipment or systems, the operational
capability of weapons and equipment is boosted.

# Section 3: Joint Campaign IO Talent Cultivation…375

Faced with the severe challenges of the worldwide new military transformation, our military must fulfill the historic
missions of building informationized armed forces and gaining victory in informationized war; but without a large group
of high-quality joint campaign IO talent, this is a fundamentally impossible task. Hence, we must regard the cultivation
and training {zaojiu} of a large and high-quality joint campaign IO talent contingent as a matter of fundamental
importance {根本大计 genben daji} for armed forces modernization, and place it in a prominent position.

# I. Talent needs for joint campaign IO…375

Joint campaign IO talent signifies military talent adapted to the requirements of gaining victory in informationized war
and to organizing and commanding joint campaign IO activities. It means high-quality servicemen {junren} having good
information accomplishments. IO talent must possess excellent political quality, military quality passing the stiffest
test, solid cultural quality, and strong and healthy physical and mental quality. At the same time, it also should have
information quality conforming to the requirements of the Information Age, and embodying the essential characteristics
of talent in the military information field. For the present time, [we] should lay stress on cultivation of the
following three types of talent: [end of page 375]

# (1) IO command talent

IO command talent includes two aspects: the first is IO command talent and the second is joint operations command
talent. In order to adapt to the needs and requirements of joint campaign IO, IO commanders {zhihuiyuan} not only must
understand command tenets, command procedures $\{ zhi hui che ngx u \}$ , command content, and command modes {zhihui
fangshi}, but also must be proficient in the operation and use $\{ cao zuo \ shi yon g \}$ of various advanced command
tools, and possess very strong manmachine conversation [dialog] {ren—ji duihua} capability. As an important component
$\{ zuc hen gbu fen \}$ of joint campaigns, IO will penetrate from the start to the finish of operations. This then
requires that the joint campaign commander be able to focus on the joint campaign IO characteristics; have the
capability to apply multiple avenues to acquire information, full-dimensional information processing capability
{quanfangwei xinxi chuli nengli}, and the capability to exploit information networks to command IO activities, as well
as the capability to mount swift responses to new information and to complex battlefield environments; and be able to
occupy [the high ground of] the joint campaign’s overall situation to macroscopically work out an approach in planning
{hongguan mouhua} of the IO activities.

# (2) IO staff officer talent {canmou rencai}

IO staff officer talent is the group {qunti} which assists the IO commander in command decision-making {zhihui juece}.
Staff personnel must have profound IO professional knowledge {zhuanye zhishi} and extensive correlated knowledge as a
supplemental structure of knowledge {buchongde zhishi jiegou}. Within operations, they [must] be able to skillfully
apply computers to analyze terrain; be able to use positioning systems to position and navigate; be able to interpret
{pandu} and analyze various types of photographs, including aviation and satellite photos; and be able to read the main
operational opponent’s military maps. They [must] be able to skillfully use computer and network technology {jisuanji he
wangluo jishu} to search for and manage various types of data resources, and be able to skillfully use computers to
perform scientific, rapid calculations and draft $\{ niz h i \}$ military documents. At the same time, they must have
fairly strong analysis and assessment {fenxi panduan} capability, the capability for working out an approach in planning
using mathematical and scientific methods {yunchou mouhua}, the capability for organization and adjusting-coordination,
inspection and guidance {jiancha zhidao} capability, and research and innovation {yanjiu chuangxin} capability, to
assist the senior officer {shouzhang} in setting the resolution {dingxia juexin} and realizing the resolution, and
creatively launching {kaizhan} the work.

(3) IO combat talent

IO combat talent mainly signifies IO combat operating personnel {zhandou caozuo renyuan}. As combat personnel, they
[must] have the ability to exploit many types of reconnaissance and detection equipment and means {zhencha tance
zhuangbei he shouduan}, [end of page 376] to swiftly and accurately ascertain the enemy intent $\{ yit u \}$ , and to
properly carry out the preparations for executing IO attacks; be able to synthetically apply $\{ zon ghe yun yon g \}$
IO equipment and exploit computer knowledge to carry out attacks on and sabotage of enemy information systems, and
paralyze the enemy’s command information systems; grasp multilayer defense {duoceng fangyu} means to guard against
sabotage by computer viruses {jisuanji bingdu} and intrusions by computer hackers $\{ hei k e \}$ ; and be able to
rapidly restore software and hardware which have suffered enemy sabotage.

# II. Talent cultivation modes for joint campaign IO…377

Joint campaign IO talent cultivation not only has points in common with cultivation of general operational talent, but
also has its own special quality {teshuxing} of cultivation. Hence, in terms of cultivation modes, the “main channel”
role of cultivation at military colleges and schools {yuanxiao} inevitably will be brought into play. At the same time,
relying on the superiority of national education to have specially emphasized cultivation of the associated professional
talent, on this basis [we] also must employ multiple modes and avenues, including continuing education, short-term
training, and advanced studies abroad {出国深造 chuguo shenzao}, to increase the cultivation’s degree of force $\{ lid u \}$
, and do everything possible to both ably and rapidly cultivate talent adapted to joint campaign IO needs and
requirements. Right now, [we] must, based on the needs and characteristics of IO talent, implement the cultivation in a
planned manner having a directed [focused] quality {you jihua, you zhenduixing di}.

(1) Enhancing the directed [focused] quality of the military college and school cultivation of IO talent

The diversity of joint campaign IO talent has determined the complexity and arduousness of military college and school
cultivation of it. In focusing on cultivating high-quality joint campaign IO talent, the pressing matter of the moment
$\{$ 当务之急 dangwu zhiji} is the need to realize the “three transformations” {“sange zhuanbian”} in armed forces college
and school talent cultivation. The first is the transformation from a single-structure model to a composite-structure
model {复合结构型 fuhe jiegou xing}. The development trend of modern scientific integration {zonghehua}, technological
integration {jichenghua}, and knowledge diversification, and the wide-ranging employment of digitized units {shuzihua
budui} and precision guided munitions [PGMs] {jingque zhidao wuqi} on the future informationized battlefield are causing
unit building to tend toward combinedness {hechenghua}. If the experience of IO personnel is unitary and simple, they
will have difficulty in adapting to joint campaign needs and requirements under informationized conditions. [We] should
focus on new knowledge, new equipment, new technologies, and new fighting methods, to realize recombination {fuhe} of
military command, political work, and logistics {houqin} and equipment support; recombination of command, management,
and technology; and recombination of academic research and military application. Second is [end of page 377] the
transformation from knowledge-model education to capabilities-model education. In the past, vis- $\dot { \mathbf { a }
}$ -vis the cultivation of talent, we laid relative stress on the imparting and instilling of knowledge, and the quality
structure of the cultivated talent was relatively unitary; the capability for receiving high/new-tech knowledge
{gaoxinkeji zhishi} and the capability for adapting to unit needs and requirements were both fairly poor, and lacking in
staying power and development potential. The cultivation of IO talent should lay stress on boosting their comprehensive
quality, and, in the transformation from “knowledgemodel education” to “capabilities-model education,” constantly
enhance their adaptability $\{ shi yin gne ngl i \}$ , innovative capability, and follow-up development potential. Third
is the transformation from classroom theoretical teaching as primary to theory plus practice. The traditional classroom
teaching model $\{ mos h i \}$ has a simple and dry form, and its cultivation and training {peixun} quality is not high.
[We] should, on the basis of classroom theoretical teaching, fully bring into play the integrated superiority {zonghe
youshi} of the colleges and schools, units, and scientific research institutions {keyan $jig o u \}$ ; strengthen
exchanges; establish cooperative relationships for jointly cultivating talent; and form integrated-whole composite
strength {zhengti heli}, [all of which] has important significance for the cultivation of IO talent. In this way, [we]
not only bring into play their respective superiorities, but also enable the [above] three to boost and promote one
another. In other words, [we] thus have boosted the cultivation quality and benefit of the IO talent, and also have
provided unit building with technical services, information services, and talent services. The colleges and schools
should, via plannedmanner organizing of students to travel to the units for investigation $\{ dia oya n \}$ , field work
{实习 $shi x i \}$ , and substitute duties {代职 daizhi}, take initiative to understand the requirements of future IO for
talent quality, and to understand the knowledge and capabilities needed for holding posts. In particular, they must
understand the new equipment development trends and the realities of unit training methods $\{ xun f a \}$ and fighting
methods reform, to provide talent and technical support $\{ zhi chi \}$ for their scientific research and training.

(2) Broadening the approaches to national education’s cultivation of IO talent

The cultivation of IO talent not only has its own special quality, but also has a good many common qualities
{gonggongxing} and points of interlinking {相通之处 xiangtong zhichu} with the cultivation of socially informationized
talent. A good many nations around the world have already gone along this approach of relying on national education to
cultivate IO talent. Within UNESCO’s world science report for 1996, it was made known that the U.S. had more than
780,000 scientists directly and indirectly in service to the military, and that this accounted for $82 \%$ of all
American scientists. Every year since 1980, the US military has had almost $45 \%$ of its newly [end of page 378]
commissioned officers directly taken from local colleges and schools. The British military’s newly commissioned officers
basically all have locally received a higher education, and the UK’s 44 regular military colleges and schools mainly
undertake training missions before officer posting or before promotion. The information-field discipline in China’s
local colleges and universities has very powerful real strength in running teaching programs $\{ ban xue shi l i \}$ ;
moreover, the various disciplinal professions are complete, the curriculum SoS is perfect, the qualified teacher
strengths are abundant, the teaching facilities equipment $\{ she bei \}$ is advanced, and the information sources are
wide-ranging. It can be said that they are the “mother lode” {“fukuang qu”} for all types of information combat talent
{xinxi zhandou rencai}. Hence, [we] must, based on the cultivation objectives $\{ mub iao \}$ , constantly increase the
cultivation degree of force, and truly tap the superiority of social information resources for our purposes.

(3) Strengthening the mechanisms $\{ jiz h i \}$ for continuing education’s cultivation of IO talent

Under circumstances where the renewal speed of current knowledge is growing ever faster, knowledge in terms of each
person always has a problem of attenuation. Statistics show that in the early period of the $2 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$
century, knowledge worldwide doubled every 10 years, but by the 1970s, it was doubling every 5 years, and today the
half-life period {banshuai qi} of knowledge is roughly 2-3 years. Especially in the information discipline’s
professional fields $\{ zhu any eli ngy u \}$ , following on the full-speed development of IT, the “depreciation” $\{
\stackrel { \scriptscriptstyle \cdots } { zhe jiu } ^ { \prime \prime } \}$ of technical knowledge is even more rapid.
This requires strengthening of continuing education mechanisms; increasing continuing education’s degree of force; and
via multiple avenues. continuing education, short-term cultivation and training, assembling for training $\{ jix u n \}$
, sending off for schooling and rotational training {送学轮训 songxue lunxun}, and substitute-duty accompanied training
{代职随训 daizhi suixun}, implementing a system $\{ \boldsymbol { z } hid u \}$ of duty cultivation and training {renzhi
peixun} and post cultivation and training {gangwei peixun} for all types of personnel in IO, accelerating the
implementing of the plan for IO talent to strengthen the army {xinxi zuozhan rencai qiangjun jihua}, seeing that
continuing education goes along a normalized and systematized track {zhengguihua, zhiduhua guidao}, helping the IO
talent to constantly renew their structure of knowledge, and precipitating the fission {liebian} and breeding of
knowledge.

# Section 4: Joint Campaign IO Battlefield Building [Construction]…379

Joint campaign IO battlefield building signifies the various types of preparatory work done in peacetime order to meet
joint campaign [end of page 379] IO needs, in respects such as the IO battlefield essential factors {yaosu}, the
battlefield management system $\{ gua nli tiz h i \}$ , and battlefield protection. In terms of a relatively perfect
traditional battlefield infrastructure building {jichu sheshi jianshe}, IO battlefield building is a new field under
informationized conditions, and also is the basis for wartime seizing of success in joint campaign IO.

# I. Objectives of joint campaign IO battlefield building…380

The IO battlefield is the entire multidimensional battlespace {duowei zhanchang kongjian} which takes IT as its
foundation, which takes the information environment as its backing, which takes IO weapons and equipment and battlefield
information networks as support $\{ zhi che n g \}$ , and which can realize sharing {gongxiang} of all types of
information resources and real-time switching of IO, to support $\{ zhi chi \}$ the IO activity of command personnel,
operational personnel, and operational support personnel. Joint campaign IO battlefield building, besides construction
of the traditional battlefield installations $\{ she shi \}$ , also should place the key points on doing well in the
following several respects.

(1) Timely shared information resources bases {xinxi ziyuanku}

Battlefield information resources building is an important basis for joint campaign IO, and is an inevitable requirement
for boosting the IO benefit. To focus on the joint campaign IO requirements, information resources building must lay
stress on building in the aspects of informationized map bases {xinxihua dituku}, weapons and equipment resources bases
{wuqi zhuangbei ziyuanku}, and intelligence resources bases {qingbao ziyuanku}. Informationized maps signify, within a
predetermined battlefield scope, maps/charts of the operational geographic information essential factors which meet the
needs and requirements of the joint campaign IO commander and his command organ $\{ zhi hui jig uan \}$ . These maps are
required to be precise {jingque}, simple and convenient, and full and accurate in content. The weapons and equipment
resources base is composed of essential factors such as the enemy and friendly sides’ main IO weapons and equipment
tactical and technical characteristics {zhanshu, jishu xingneng} and their application requirements, and is one of the
foundations for the commander and his command organ to command the operations. The intelligence resources base
signifies, via establishing of a complete, accurate, and detailed intelligence information database {qingbao xinxi
shujuku}, the basis supplied for the operational decision-making of the commander and his command organ.

(2) Interconnected and intercommunicating {hulian, hutong} battlefield information networks

Battlefield information networks are the foundation for the open-up development and exploitation {kaifa liyong} of
battlefield information resources and for IT application, and are important means for information transmission,
switching, and sharing. Battlefield information networks [end of page 380] mainly include two large classes $\{ lei \}$
, shared information networks {gongyong xinxi wanguo} and dedicated information networks {zhuanyong xinxi wangluo}, and
are the main-body essential factors of informationized battlefield building. In order to meet our military’s joint
campaign IO requirements, the near-term development objectives for battlefield information network building are as
follows: the first is to enlarge the battlefield information network coverage scope, so that it can cover all
operational units {zuozhan budui} and organs, as well as all preset battlefields, and radiate to all operational
elements $\{ zuo zha n ~ dan yua n \}$ , thus composing the basic backing for the IO battlefield. Second is to enhance
the information networks’ battlefield adaptability, to ensure uninterrupted command {bujianduande zhihui}. Third is the
need during building to apply advanced, mature technologies to realize real-time transmission of multiple types of
information, including voice, data, and imagery, and provide users with a variety of convenient functions. Fourth is
boosting security and secrecy {anquan baomi} and protection capability.

# (3) A standardized, integrated {biaozhunhua, yitihua} battlefield SoS

The standardized, integrated battlefield SoS not only is a requirement for technical design {jishu sheji} and
application, but also is an inevitable requirement for the joint campaign IO battlefield SoS. Within it, standardization
is the “bottleneck” restricting the integration of information systems and the information flow volume and flow speed,
and is the key to realizing intercommunication and interconnection among all systems and all elements on the
battlefield. Integration means the integration realized for information systems on the battlefield, including early
warning and detection, intelligence and reconnaissance, C2, and EW; the integration realized for battlefield information
collection, transmission, and processing; and the vertical and horizontal integration {zongxiang he hengxiang yitihua}
realized for all operational elements and all operational systems. A standardized, integrated battlefield SoS is an
assurance for boosting battlefield survivability {shengcun nengli} and combat power.

# II. Main content of joint campaign IO battlefield building…381

The main content of IO battlefield building includes IO battlefield management SoS building, building of the IO
battlefield’s basic essential factors, battlefield information network construction, protective engineering {fanghu
gongcheng} construction for battlefield information installations, construction of battlefield information management
and control installations {xinxi guanzhi sheshi}, and open-up development and reserve {kaifa yu chubei} of battlefield
information resources. [end of page 381]

(1) Building of the IO battlefield management SoS

IO battlefield management SoS building mainly includes the following several aspects: the first is managing and
organizing the SoS building. In order to adapt to the needs and requirements of IO battlefield management work, the
theater should establish an IO battlefield building management institution, responsible for the IO battlefield
management work related to all systems in that theater. Second is the building of the management systems and means. [We]
must exploit advanced management technology to establish an automated management system {zidonghua guanli xitong}, in
order to realize effective management and to enhance management levels {shuiping} and capability. Third is the building
of management policy laws and regulations {zhengce fagui}. [We] must formulate the corresponding full set of policy laws
and regulations, to facilitate applying all available battlefield information resources, and to assure information
sharing and normal order $\{ \boldsymbol { z } h i \boldsymbol { x } \boldsymbol { u } \}$ . Fourth is the building of a
management index SoS {zhibiao tixi}. Based on the needs and requirements for IO battlefield building and management, the
establishing of specific tactical and technical management indexes is an objective requirement for assuring the rapid
adjusted-coordinated development of the IO battlefield work.

(2) Building of the basic essential factors of the IO battlefield

The IO battlefield’s basic essential factors are mainly embodied in six respects. First are the basic essential factors
of information collection $\{ cai j i \}$ . These mainly include observation and communication radar stations {guantong
leidazhan}, sonar reconnaissance stations {shengna zhenchazhan $\}$ , communication reconnaissance and detection
stations {tongxin zhencezhan}, medium/long-range direction finding stations {zhongyuanjuli cexiangzhan}, phased array
radar stations {xiangkongzhen leidazhan}, and trajectory-measurement phased array radar stations {dandao celiang
xiangkongzhen leidazhan}. Second are the basic essential factors of information transmission. These mainly include
various types of fixed communication stations, hub node stations {shuniu jiedianzhan}, satellite ground stations
{weixing dimianzhan}, and various types of mobile base stations {yidong jizhan}. Third are the basic essential factors
of information processing. These mainly include information processing centers composed of hardware platforms and
software systems. Fourth are the basic essential factors of IW {xinxi duikang}. These mainly include transceiver jamming
stations {diantai ganraozhan}, radar jamming stations $\{ lei dag anr aoz han \}$ , and space satellite jamming stations
{kongjian weixing ganraozhan}. Fifth are the basic essential factors of information control. These mainly include C2
centers at all levels. Sixth are the basic essential factors of information support. These mainly signify monitoring
facilities equipment {jiankong shebei}, air and temperature regulation facilities equipment, and all types of service
{qinwu} support installations. [end of page 382]

(3) Battlefield information network construction

Battlefield information networks are integrated {yitihua} battlefield information nets with military-use and public
information communication nets {junyong gonggong xinxi tongxin wang} as the basis, forming system-of-nets integration
{网系集成 wangxi jicheng}, and [having] security and secrecy {anquan baomi} and flexibility {jidong linghuo}. In this
system-of-nets structure $\{ wan gxi jie gou \}$ , the unified node structural form and functional positioning $\{ gon
gne ngp eiz h i \}$ , and the positioning of essential factors for a unified standard $\{ ton gyi gui fan \}$ “user
application net $+$ marginal net {bianyuan wang} $^ +$ core net” [together] realize seamless interconnection {wufengxi
lianjie} of fixed information communication nets and mobile {jidong} information communication nets, strategic
information communication nets and campaign/tactical information communication nets, public information communication
nets and service and service arm {junbingzhong} dedicated information communication nets, and military information
communication nets and civilian information communication nets. In terms of the relationship of communication to the
command information systems and weapons systems, they realize metasynthesis. In terms of the technical system $\{ tiz h
i \}$ , they realize technical system unification of the common equipment {gongxing zhuangbei} of all services and arms.
In terms of services $\{ yew u \}$ , they integrate support {zonghe zhichi} for voice, data, imagery, and multimedia
services. In terms of network control and management, they realize automation, smartness $\{ zhi nen ghu a \}$ , and
synthesis {zonghehua}. In terms of network security and secrecy $\{$ {wangluo anquan yu baomi}, they realize multilevel
security, multilevel secrecy, and synthesis into an organic whole $\{ zon ghe yit i \}$ . In terms of organization and
application, they support $\{ { zhi chi } \}$ dynamic reorganization $\{ don gta ich ong z u \}$ , and have both
independent application and synthetic application.

(4) Protective engineering construction for battlefield information installations

Within future operations, information installations will be the targets of first choice for enemy strikes. Hence, during
building [we] must, based on the information installations’ protection requirements, adopt protective engineering
construction mutually adapted to them. Within this, important installations such as C2 centers, communication centers,
and data processing centers should be built underground or in cave depots $\{ don gku \}$ ; generator rooms or
workstations {gongzuozhan} having EM radiation {dianci fushe} must during building have shielding materials {pingbi
cailiao} installed in their surrounding walls, to prevent EM leakage {dianci xielou}; information installations
undertaking important missions can carry out double-address backup {双址备份 shuangzhi beifen} or bistatic [dual-base]
construction $\{ shu ang jid iji ans h e \}$ ; and information installation construction on the ground should
comprehensively consider protective camouflage {weizhuang}, so as to boost wartime survivability.

(5) Battlefield information management and control installation construction

Battlefield information management and control installation construction mainly signifies battlefield spectrum
management and control {pinpu guanzhi} installation construction, [end of page 383] information management and control
station {guanli kongzhi taizhan} construction, and building of information management and control means and systems.
Within these, a spectrum-resources comprehensive $\{ zon ghe \}$ management system is the key point for battlefield
information management and control building. The spectrum-resources comprehensive management system should combine into
an organic whole the functions of radio/wireless signal monitoring {信号监测 xinhao jiance}, positioning, analysis and
frequency allocation {pinlyu fenpei}, and realtime indication and allocation {指配 zhipei}.

(6) Battlefield information resources open-up development {kaifa} and reserve

The open-up development of information resources must be carried out under a unified technical system $\{ tiz h i \}$
and standards system {biaozhun tizhi}; this is the foundation for realizing information resources exploitation and
sharing {liyong he gongxiang}. Our military’s information resources in overall terms can be divided into shared
information resources and special-purpose information resources. Shared information resources signify the shared
information resources providable to the three services, while special-purpose information resources signify information
resources correlated only to one unit $\{ dan wei \}$ or system service $\{ xit ong yew u \}$ . Shared information
resources should be given unified organization and open-up development, while special-purpose information resources are
organized and open-up developed by the employing unit {shiyong danwei}. The open-up development of information resources
is the critical link in boosting the data and quality of the information resources. It mainly should be carried out by
centering on several links: information resources collection, information resources tapping $\{ waj u e \}$ , and
information resources optimized regeneration {youhua zaisheng}.

The reserve of information resources is the use of certain methods to store the achievements of the open-up development
of information resources, to facilitate the ability to timely exploit them when needed and required. Reserve of
information resources is mainly realized via the mode of class-by-class establishment {fenlei jianli} of databases and
their management systems [DBMSs].

# Section 5: Joint Campaign IO Strength Building…384

The IO strengths are the main body for implementing joint campaign IO, and are the keys to bringing into play IO
technical equipment effectiveness and to boosting IO capability. Joint campaign IO strength building must focus on
boosting IO capability, fully bring into play the tactical and technical characteristics of the IO weapons and
equipment, take the acquisition of battlefield information superiority [end of page 384] as the pulling force, and, on
the basis of the existing IO units, step up reform and perfection, and strive within a fairly short time to build them into a force structure {liliang jiegou} and scale
adapted to future joint campaign IO needs and requirements.

# I. Requirements for joint campaign IO strength building…385

IO strength building must take the joint campaign IO battlefield needs and requirements as the criteria $\left\{ zhu nze
\right\}$ , to achieve the basic objectives of high command efficiency $\{ zhi hui xia oly u \}$ and strong
comprehensive operational capability {zonghe zuozhan nengli}.

(1) Being elite, highly efficient, and moderate in scale {jinggan, gaoxiao, guimo shidu}

The joint campaign IO activities confrontation $\{ xin gdo ngd uik ang \}$ is sharp and technology intensive {jishu
miji}, and its implementation degree of difficulty {shishi nandu} is high. Hence, being elite, highly efficient, and
moderate in scale has become a general requirement $\{ zon gti yao qiu \}$ for IO strength building. First of all is
conformance with China’s actual economic real strength foundation. Since all types of IO weapons and equipment within IO
unit equipment are highly technology intensive, their funding investment is enormous, and large amounts of capital $\{
zij i n \}$ are invested within a fairly short time to build IO strengths on a huge scale. This not only is unrealistic,
it is also unnecessary. [We] must move along a building approach of economic practicality. Next is being beneficial to
boosting of battlefield survivability. In future joint campaign IO, the confronting sides {duikang shuangfang} will in
large quantities apply high-grade, precision, and advanced {高, 精, 尖 gao, jing, jian} weapons and equipment; battlefield
transparency will be increased, and lethality {shashangli} and destructive power {pohuaili} will be sharply increased;
and the threats to large-scale units moreover will grow ever higher. Hence, elite, highly efficient, moderate-sized IO
units are becoming the development trend. Third is conformance to the characteristics of IO activities. Joint campaign
IO mainly is a confrontation in the EM field and in the network field, and its prominent characteristics are a strong
technical quality and non-contact operations {feijiechu zuozhan}. Hence, building an IO strength [contingent] with a
high S&T content and moderate scale is an inevitable requirement for carrying out IO missions.

(2) Facilitating implementation of high-efficiency joint campaign IO command

Joint campaign IO strength building must take boosting of IO command benefit as a basic requirement. This is because, on
one hand, the IO battlefield scope is expansive, and battlefield situations change rapidly, objectively requiring that
the commander and his command organ must [end of page 385] accelerate command speed and boost command efficiency, so as
to effectively command and control the IO units. On the other hand, the IO weapons and equipment technological
confrontation is pronounced, opportunities for combat {zhanji} are fleeting {瞬间即逝 shunjian jishi}, and some situations
are even difficult to anticipate. Hence, this subjectively requires that the commander and his command organ must be
highly efficient in command, so as to adapt to the situation of IO battlefield changes. In addition, boosting command
efficiency in terms of the integrated whole, and enhancing battlefield adjustment-control capability {tiaokong nengli},
also are basic requirements of future joint campaign IO.

(3) Being beneficial to bringing into play IO weapons and equipment effectiveness

Joint campaign IO strength building involves many aspects, including the strength scale and its system and
organizational structure {tizhi bianzhi}. Among these, technical equipment also is an indispensable aspect. From the
viewpoint of the development of IO practice, it mainly is composed of EW and network warfare; and the EW strengths and
network warfare strengths are the main body of the IO strengths. In other words, EW equipment and network warfare
equipment are the main-body parts of the IO equipment. However, the above weapons and equipment not only are mutually
different in performance, but also are greatly dissimilar in operational application. For example, EW equipment, from
the viewpoint of operational disposition $\{ zuo zha n \ bus h u \}$ , not only can be dispositioned on the ground, in
the air, and at sea, but also can be [deployed] in outer space {taikong kongjian}. From the viewpoint of jamming
operating distance {ganrao zuoyong juli}, some of it is long-distance jamming equipment, and some is short-distance
jamming equipment; and from the viewpoint of jamming technology, some of this equipment is for communication jamming,
and some is for radar jamming, etc. Hence, bringing into play to the maximum extent the technological superiority of the
IO weapons and equipment, and optimally combining the weapons and equipment integrated-whole strength, are inevitable
requirements of IO strength building.

# II. Ideas on [train of thought in] joint campaign IO strength building…386

The building of joint campaign IO strengths is a new thing. We should take as the foundation the successful experiences
of the past few years of strength building; be grounded in the present; focus on the future; and explore a path to
success which is economical, highly efficient, and suited to China’s national conditions and military conditions. [end
of page 386]

(1) Laying stress on the key point of campaign-level IO strength building

The campaign-level IO strengths are the main body for carrying out the joint campaign IO missions, and within all IO
strength building they are in the leading position {zhudao diwei}. At present, our military’s IO strengths mainly are
composed of IO strengths at three levels: strategic, campaign, and tactical. The technical equipment and operational
application of the various types of strength are mutually different; moreover, the tactical-level IO unit scale is
fairly large, leading to imbalance in the integrated-whole force structure {zhengti liliang jiegou}. From the viewpoint
of the actual situation, the development speed of the campaign-level IO strengths is fairly slow, and their structure is
not exactly reasonable {不尽合理 bujin heli}; they are far from being able to adapt to joint campaign IO needs. Hence,
within the building process, [we] must tightly concentrate on this key point, viz., campaign IO strength building; scientifically demonstrate it from the aspects of
talent cultivation, equipment needs, and unit structure; take the two types of main-body strengths, EW and network
warfare, as the pulling force; and, by optimizing the internal force structure, accelerate the steps to IO strength
building.

(2) Reforming and adjusting the current IO force structure

At present, our military’s IO strengths are developing from the original assisting support and safeguarding support
{zhiyuan baozhang} strengths into important operational strengths, and the speed and scale of strength building are
correspondingly increasing. However, from the viewpoint of the integrated whole of our military’s present IO strengths,
still present are phenomena such as the structural hierarchy {jiegou cengci} being not exactly reasonable, fairly large
divergence in technical equipment, and developmental imbalance in the various services’ strengths. For example, the Army
{lujun} EW strengths already have formed a certain scale, but most of its weapons and equipment are at the tactical
level; and the Navy and Air Force EW strengths have somewhat developed, but their development speed and scale still
cannot meet operational needs and requirements. Hence, [we] must concentrate efforts on resolving the existing problems;
take adapting to future joint campaign IO needs as the objective; reform the existing unit structural hierarchy; step up
R&D and demonstration of technical equipment; adjust the distribution $\{ buj u \}$ and composition of IO strengths
among all services; and do everything possible within a fairly short time to build them into a [contingent of] IO units
with a balanced development of service strengths, with fairly advanced equipment, and with adaptation to future
operational needs and requirements. [end of page 387]

(3) Strengthening training, boosting comprehensive operational capability

Boosting comprehensive operational capability is the basic objective in IO strength building. If [we] want to accomplish
this point, besides having a scientific and rational organizational structure and system $\{ bia nzh iti zhi \}$ ,
command relationships {zhihui guanxi} which are smooth and ordered $\{ shu nch ang you x u \}$ , and advanced
battlefield information networks, [we] also need to have the units undergo long-term, large-volume training and practice
activity {xunlian shijian huodong}. IO unit training mainly sets about in the following several respects: the first is
laying stress on unit training under complex EM environments. In future informationized operations, the battlefield will
have large quantities of electronic facilities equipment of different frequency bands {pinduan} and different systems
$\{ tiz h i \}$ ; moreover, their multitude of quantities and high density will create very great influences on unit
operational activities {budui zuozhan xingdong}. Added to this, the IO weapons and equipment per se will have large
quantities of electronic information facilities equipment. How to properly handle the application relationships among
the various types of information facilities equipment, and bring into play the superiority of the IO weapons and
equipment’s own performance, thus will require going through peacetime setup $\{ she zhi \}$ of complex EM environments,
seeking within training the laws $\{ gui lyu \}$ of IT equipment application, and enhancing the directed [focused]
quality of IO training. Second is laying stress on joint training {lianhe xunlian}. On one hand, [we] must emphasize
jointness between the IO units and the other units, discover inadequacies within the training process, find
disparities/gaps $\{ cha j u \}$ , and thus form integrated-whole operational capability. On the other hand, [we] must
emphasize jointness among the internal strengths of the IO units, and conduct training activity to enhance the
coordination capability among their own internal strengths, among the weapons and equipment, and within application of
the different means, to boost the IO’s own operational capability. Third is applying simulation means {moni shouduan} to
boost the training benefit. From the viewpoint of the main practices of foreign militaries, the method of a mutual
combination of combat simulation [war games] {zuozhan moni} and exercises $\{ yan x i \}$ is an effective avenue for
boosting unit training quality. Practice has proven that application of simulation technology can in a lifelike manner
reproduce a variety of battlefield environments and, after introducing various variables and essential factors $\{ bia
nli ang yao s u \}$ , rapidly display the situations of various training results. Also, within complex EM environments,
[we] can apply composite simulators {fuheshi moniqi} to carry out simulation testing {moni jianyan} of various types of
weapons and equipment undergoing new open-up development. Via scientific simulation and emulation means {moni fangzhen
shouduan}, [we] maximally promote the joint campaign IO units’ training quality, and boost their training levels. [end
of page 388; end of chapter]

# Chapter 23 U.S. and Taiwan Information Operations…389

The U.S. and Taiwan militaries both attach extreme importance to the role {zuoyong} of information operations [IO]
within modern war, and have made very great efforts in the research {yanjiu} aspects of IO. Moreover, they have also
realized very good achievements.

# Section 1: Information Operations of the US Military…389

The US military holds that modern war is now developing precisely in the direction of taking the seizure of information
superiority $\{ xin xiy ous h i \}$ as primary, that IO already has become an all-new operational pattern $\{ zuo zha
nya ngs h i \}$ , and that the influence which IO will produce on modern war will be greater than that of any one
operational pattern of the past. At the same time, it emphasizes that in future wars, the seizure of information
superiority will be the fundamental assurance of seizure of allaround military superiority, and will be a basic
prerequisite {qianti} for winning wars; and it has applied this thought within several recent local wars. No matter
whether in the Persian Gulf War {haiwan zhanzheng} of the early 1990s or in the later Kosovo War and Iraq War, the US
military has always attached the fullest importance to applying an organic combination of IO and other operational
activities $\{ zuo zha nxi ngd ong \}$ , and has elevated IO activities to the strategic high ground of awareness. Also,
it is precisely the fact that it has this rich war practice as a support {zhicheng} and testing {jianyan} [ground] which
has enabled the US military’s awareness of IO to become ever deeper; [its] IO capability is constantly increasing, and
it has formed a relatively complete IO theory. [end of page 389]

# I. Basic viewpoints and principles of US military IO…390

The US military holds that the essence of IO is to use information capability {xinxi neng} as the main functional means
$\{ zuo yon gsh oud uan \}$ , and use “information flow” $\{ \stackrel { \scriptscriptstyle . . . } { xin x i } liu ^ {
\prime \prime } \}$ to control “capabilities flow” {“nengliang liu”} and “material flow” [logistics] $\{ \ ^ { \ast }
wuz h i \ liu ^ { \prime \prime } \}$ , so as to usurp {buduo} the enemy’s decision-making capability $\{ jue cen eng l
i \}$ and preserve friendly {jifang} decision-making superiority {juece $you shi \}$ , and, via ultimate attacks on the
enemy’s understanding $\{ ren shi \}$ and conviction, to force the enemy to drop his resistance {fangqi duikang}.

IO has broad-sense and narrow-sense parts. Broad-sense IO signifies the confrontation {duikang} and struggle {douzheng}
conducted by the opposing sides {didui shuangfang} in the political, economic, science and technology [S&T] $\{ kej i
\}$ , diplomatic, cultural, and military fields $\{ lin gyu \}$ , as well as on the battlefield, and exploiting
information technology [IT] $\{ xin xij ish u \}$ means to contend for information superiority. Broad-sense IO is
divided into two types: wartime and peacetime. Narrowsense IO signifies “battlefield information warfare [IW]
{xinxizhan}” or “command and control [C2] warfare” {“zhihui kongzhizhan”}. This indicates, under intelligence assisting
support {qingbao zhiyuan}, using multiple means, entity destruction {shiti cuihui}, electronic warfare [EW]
{dianzizhan}, military deception [MILDEC] {junshi qipian}, operations security [OPSEC] {zuozhan baomi}, and
psychological operations [PSYOP] $\{ xin liz han \}$ , to attack the enemy’s entire information system $\{ xin xix ito n
g \}$ , and disrupt $\{ poh uai \}$ or sever the enemy information flow, so as to influence, weaken, or destroy the
enemy’s command information system capability, and at the same time protect friendly command information system
capability. [Translator’s note: in this section only, due to US military usage, all “support(ing)” unless otherwise
indicated is “assisting support” {zhiyuan}.]

(1) Basic viewpoints

1. Seizing battlefield decision-making superiority is the basic goal {mudi} of IO.

The joint Information Operations regulations {lianhe xinxi zuozhan tiaoling} [joint] publication [JP 3-13] by the US
military in 2006 clearly points out the following: “Information operations (IO) are described as the integrated
employment {zonghe liyong} of electronic warfare (EW), computer network operations (CNO) {jisuanji wangluozhan},
psychological operation (PSYOP), military deception (MILDEC), and operations security (OPSEC) [as the core
capabilities], in concert {peihe} with specified {teding} supporting and related capabilities, to influence, disrupt
{pohuai}, corrupt {raoluan}, or usurp adversarial human and automated decision making while protecting our own.”24 In
other words, the main objective {mubiao} in the US military’s implementation of IO is to usurp the adversary’s
decision-making capability, and the fundamental goal which must be achieved is to seize decision-making superiority.
This is significantly different from the viewpoint of the 1998 joint Information Operations regulations [also called JP
3-13], so that its understanding was constantly deepening. In the 1998 version of joint Information Operations
regulations, the US military had held that “information operations are activities to influence the enemy’s information
and [end of page 390] information systems, while protecting friendly information and information systems,” and that
their fundamental goal was “to seize information superiority.” This [change] from “information superiority” to
“decision-making superiority” in reality was the elevation of IO from the campaign level {zhanyi cengci} to the
strategic level {zhanlue cengci}. This also illustrated that IO under informationized conditions {xinxihua tiaojianxia}
had already been interwoven together with other operational activities, to become the main factor {yinsu} influencing
enemy decision-making capability.

2. Integrated {zonghe yiti} IO capability is the foundation for realizing IO goals.

The US military holds that in order to achieve the fundamental goal of IO, viz., seizing decision-making superiority
within the operational process, it is necessary to build and fully bring into play an integrated IO capability. In the
2006 version of joint Information Operations regulations, the US military laid out an even clearer and allaround
demarcation of IO capability, viz., IO capability includes core capabilities, supporting capabilities, and related
capabilities. IO supporting capabilities directly or indirectly influence the information environment, and together with
core capabilities form an organic whole {yiti}. Only by their adjusted-coordinated application {xietiao yunyong} can
even better IO effects be obtained. The employment rules {shiyong guize} for the IO associated capabilities are not
subject to the restrictions of IO; as long as these aspects are given consideration when planning {jihua} and conducting
IO, they enable in an even better way achieving the goals of integrated-whole operations {zhengti zuozhan}

3. Information reconnaissance {xinxi zhencha} with equal emphasis on peacetime and wartime {pingzhan bingzhong} is a
prerequisite for conducing IO.

Within the operational process, in order to seize information superiority and then seize decision-making superiority,
the US military attaches the highest importance to conducting information reconnaissance with a mutual combination of
peacetime and wartime [reconnaissance]. The US military holds that combined peacetime-wartime information reconnaissance
not only is an important component $\{ zuc hen gbu fen \}$ in seizing information superiority and then seizing
decision-making superiority, but at the same time also is the basis and prerequisite for organizing and conducting other
IO activities. In peacetime, the US military always employs many and varied reconnaissance means $\{ zhe nch a \ sho udu
a n \}$ , including reconnaissance satellites $\{ zhe nch a ~ wei xin g \}$ , reconnaissance aircraft, reconnaissance
ships {zhencha chuan}, and ground reconnaissance stations {dimian zhencha zhan}, to conduct uninterrupted {bujianduan}
information reconnaissance against several susceptible areas {mingan diqu}, so as to acquire large amounts of important
information intelligence {xinxi qingbao}. [end of page 391] In wartime, the US military, with peacetime information
reconnaissance as the foundation, concentrates strengths {jizhong liliang} to conduct all-around and careful
reconnaissance against the enemy’s military information systems.

4. Integrated soft and hard kill {ruanying shashang yiti} information attack {xinxi gongji} is the main means of IO.

Since the US military has grasped the most advanced IT and has the most advanced information attack weapons, in order to
achieve the goals of its IO it thus always stresses bringing into play the superiority of information attack capability,
to conduct information attacks on the enemy in which integrated means {zonghe shouduan} are simultaneously used and soft
and hard kill are integrated. Via such powerful information attacks, it stresses creating enemy C2 imbalances $\left\{
shi tia o \right\}$ , communication interrupts {tongxin zhongduan}, and intelligence and reconnaissance system
dysfunction {qingbao zhencha xitong shiling}, so as to gain information superiority and then gain decision-making
superiority. In the 1991 Gulf War, the US military conducted a series of electronic attack {dianzi gongji} activities
against Iraq, which caused the air defense system {fangkong xitong} painstakingly built up {苦心经营 kuxin jingying} by the
Iraqis for over a decade to lack scope for its abilities {无用武之地 wuyong wu zhidi}.

5. Full-dimensional seamless information protection {quanwei wufeng de xinxi fanghu} is assurance for the smooth
implementation of IO.

The US military emphasizes that while executing powerful information attacks, it must at the same time implement
full-dimensional seamless information protection. The US military clearly points out that the vulnerability {yisunxing}
and fragility {cuiruoxing} of the information infrastructure $\{ xin xij ich ush esh i \}$ cause information systems to
sink into paralysis {tanhuan} or information to leak out {xinxi waixie}, thus leading to losses which are ever more
prominent, and even possibly leading to the failure of military activities. Following on the improvements in the
operational opponent’s level of mastery and application of IT, it must adopt multiple measures to implement
fulldimensional, seamless information protection. In regard to the security protection {anquan fanghu} problem for
military information systems, the US military is even worried that “electronic Pearl Harbor” incidents may ultimately
occur. In order to boost information protection capability $\{ xin xif ang hun eng l i \}$ , the US military emphasizes
the adoption of IO simulation exercises $\{ mon iya nxi \}$ , to look for and discover the weak points of one’s own
information infrastructure, and in view of those weak points to put forth the corresponding countermeasures $\{ dui c e
\}$ and recommendations. At the same time, it requires that all services {junzhong} and all Department of Defense [DoD]
associated directly subordinate institutions {xiangguan zhishu jigou} establish rapid reaction elements, such as
computer contingency detachments {jisuanji yingji fendui} and automatic system security contingency detachments
{zidonghua xitong anquan yingji fendui}, so that information systems after being damaged can obtain timely repair. [end
of page 392]

(2) Basic principles

The US military holds that IO should purposefully {有目的地 you mudidi} make the “fog of war” {zhanzheng “miwu”} facing the
operational opponent become even thicker, and at the same time to bring into play friendly high-tech superiority, so as
to dispel the “fog of war” facing the friendly side, and ensure that the adversary’s inferiority cannot be changed into
a superiority. Hence, the US military holds that IO is a newly developing operational pattern, having distinct
characteristics $\{ ted ian \}$ , and that when organizing and implementing IO, [its forces] generally must abide by the
following principles.

# 1. Principle of decapitation {zhanshou}

The principle of decapitation signifies conducting information attacks on the decision-making institutions of units at
all levels in the enemy, i.e., the enemy’s national command authority [NCA] {guojia zhihui dangju}, Joint Staff {lianhe
canmoubu}, and theater general headquarters [HQ] {zhanqu zong silingbu}, as well as the HQs {silingbu} of all field
group armies, divisions, and battalions {yezhan jituanjun, shi, he ying}, to prevent the enemy’s C2 personnel from using
automated or electronic assisted decisionmaking means {fuzhu juece shouduan}. It emphasizes attacking the enemy’s head
$\{ tou b u \}$ , not its body $\{ { qut i } \}$ , and not allowing the enemy to prevent the friendly side from
purposefully creating the “fog of war;” severing or disrupting all of the enemy’s information broadcast media {xinxi
chuanmei} telephone, radio spectrum {wuxiandian pinpu}, fiberoptic cable $\{ dia nla n \}$ , and other transmission
means; severing the enemy’s nervous system {shenjing xitong}, and paralyzing, disrupting, weakening, or destroying the
enemy’s various transmission devices $\{ chu ans huz hua ngz h i \}$ ; stopping the enemy from using grey systems $\{ {
} ^ { * } hui s e ^ { , * } xit ong \}$ , so that the enemy cannot employ $3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ -party communication
satellites; and thinking up ways to create disorder $\{ hun lua n \}$ and terror $\{ kon gbu \}$ , to ensure that after
the enemy’s head is knocked off, its body cannot be active.

# 2. Principle of blinding {zhimang}

The principle of blinding signifies first destroying the enemy’s detection instrument equipment {tance qicai} such as
sensors {chuanganqi}, rather than wiping out $\{ xia omi e \}$ enemy personnel. The US military holds that under
informationized conditions, the original offensive and defensive theory {jingong yu fangyu lilun $\}$ is no longer
applicable, and that commanders {zhihuiguan} should think up ways to first destroy the enemy’s sensors, so that the
enemy becomes deaf and blind. It stresses combining the use of auto-homing weapons {自动寻的武器 zidong xundi wuqi} and
electronic jamming {dianzi ganrao} with soft and hard suppression means {ruanying yazhi shouduan} against the enemy’s
air defense firepower {fangkong huoli}, to prevent the enemy’s electronic equipment {dianzi zhuangbei} from transmitting
electromagnetic [EM] signals. Against broad-spectrum video observation instruments {kuanpinpu shixiang guanceyi} which
the enemy can employ, [commanders] must use focusedenergy {jujiaoneng}, band-energy {pindaineng}, ultrahigh-energy
{chaoqiangneng}, or intelligent conventional weapons {zhinengxing changgui wuqi} to deal with them. [end of page 393] At
the same time, it emphasizes suppressing the enemy’s passive sensors {beidong chuanganqi}, and will use lasers
{jiguangqi} to irradiate the enemy’s optical tracking instruments $\{ gua ngx ueg enz ong y i \}$ , fry $\{ \boldsymbol
{ z } h \boldsymbol { a } h \boldsymbol { u } i \}$ the enemy’s radio-frequency [RF] receivers {shepin jieshouji}, and
burn up {shaohui} the enemy’s passive detectors {beidong tanceqi}. In sum, commanders should think up ways to “blind”
all of the enemy’s sensors, so that the enemy “cannot see clearly” {“kanbuqing”} everything which is about to occur. The
US military stresses that any sensors which provide information to the enemy all must be viewed as the enemy’s sensors.
[Commanders] should force the grey systems to closely cooperate with the friendly side, and not permit $3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ -party satellites which execute meteorological data collection, earth detection {diqiu tance},
and other missions to provide information to the enemy.

# 3. Principle of battlefield transparency {zhancheng touming}

Commanders should be crystal clear {一清二楚 yiqing erchu} about the battlefield situation in every kind of respect, and
accomplish from start to finish making the battlefield transparent. To this end, commanders should think of ways to
ensure that friendly surveillance {jianshi} and reconnaissance are uninterrupted, rigorous $\{ yan m i \}$ , and
multispectral {duopinpu}. They must not ignore the offensive routes of which the enemy is “not very capable” {“butai
keneng”}, and must penetrate clouds, rainfall, dark of night, and the penetrable earth’s surface $\{ kec hua nto udi bia
o \}$ to carry out observation; they must not fear consuming energy and sensor instrument equipment {chuangan qicai};
they must see that friendly activities always are conducted before the enemy is in the cyclical process of
“awareness–feedback” {“renshi–fankui”}, and must exploit all opportunities to always be one step ahead of the enemy.
They [must] ensure completely receiving the sensor data sent by joint forces {lianhe budui} from long distances, and
avoid transporting {shusong} too much sensor information over vulnerable communication nodes {cuiruode tongxin jiedian};
they must not spend too much time in processing data, unless they have no other choice but to do so; and they must
directly distribute {fenfa} the data to all shooters {sheshou}, so that they can immediately use it. [Commanders must]
ensure carrying out battle damage assessment [BDA] {zhandou huishang pinggu} in a rapid, all-around, and accurate
manner. They must not waste resources on false targets {jiamubiao} or on already damaged targets {cuihui de mubiao}.
They must exploit [cases of] multiple phenomenology {多重现象学 duochong xianxiangxue}, and from among the fixed targets
accurately recognize the targets having activity {huodong de mubiao}.

# 4. Principle of agility {minjie}

The principle of agility requires that commanders should ensure that the friendly decision-making cycle is shorter than
the enemy’s decision-making cycle, and moreover that [friendly] operations {yunxing} are faster. When executing the
principle of decapitation, the principle of blinding, and the principle of battlefield transparency, they must see that
[those principles] are mutually in concert [complemented] {xianghu peihe}.They must see that the friendly side’s [end of
page 394] single process of “shoot– move–reshoot” {“sheji–yundong–zaisheji”} is carried out faster and more accurately,
while the enemy always remains in a state {zhuangtai} of “taking a beating–shock– taking another beating”
{“aida–zhenjing–zai aida”}, and that the enemy from start to finish does not know the friendly activities direction
{xingdong fangxiang}. Hence, [this principle] requires that the information providers should maintain a high state of
readiness {zhanbei zhuangtai}; ensure at all times providing all information needed and required $\{ xuy a o \}$ ; and
ensure that all-around, complete, and already checked intelligence {hedui de qingbao} and target information are
provided before needed by the shooters. It changes the usually encountered situation in which the attack aircraft pilots
{gongjiji jiashiyuan} when preparing for takeoff have no choice but to wait for the latest intelligence. At the same time, it
requires that the frequency bandwidth {pindai kuandu} must ensure full throughput {quanliang tongguo} of the data, and
leave a certain leeway. It precludes the use of easily jammed and vulnerable communication means to send important
information; and it precludes using narrow-band {pindaizhai}, slow-speed communication media to send large quantities of
information, to avoid communication “bottleneck”-induced congestion of the lines over which the decision-makers acquire
information.

# 5. Principle of survival {shengcun}

The principle of survival emphasizes that commanders should employ multiple avenues to avoid being easily decapitated by
the enemy. To this end, it stresses centralized formulation of tactics and planning {jizhong zhiding celue yu jihua},
but decentralized {fensan} implementation of plans for use of military forces {yongbing jihua}; bringing into play the
initiative [quality] {zhudongxing} and flexibility {linghuoxing} of their subordinate troops, to avoid implementing
overly centralized C2; exploiting all resources of the nation, and using all means of the entire society and all
departments (TV news broadcasts, computer or communication systems, communication satellites, fax machines, electronic
billboards, and international general-purpose networks {guoji tongyong wangluo}) to ensure smoothness of information
flow; adopting multinode, multi-system, multipath, multi-frequency transmission of information {chuandi $xin x i \}$ ,
to boost survivability $\{ she ngc unn eng l i \}$ ; concealing {yinbi} friendly command, control, and communication
[C3] systems, using mobile small satellite receiving devices {kejidong de xiaoxing weixing jieshou zhuangzhi}, and
frequently changing their deployment location $\{ pei zhi ~ wei zhi \}$ ; burying of electric cable and fiberoptic lines
{guangxian xianlu} between fixed firing positions {fashe zhendi}; transmitting deception signals {qipian xinhao} from
secondary nodes; and from start to finish, retaining backup communication plans $\{ bei yon gto ngx inj ihu a \}$ , and
[seeing that] the backup communication plans should have stronger survivability than the main communication plan. When
ascertaining if the enemy has the facilities equipment {shebei} and capability for jamming the r.f. [band], [commanders]
should not use r.f. transceivers {diantai} to replace the basic telephone communication system. To ensure that the
friendly side [end of page 395] possesses technical superiority in C3 respects, they should make sure to be ahead of the
enemy in respect to renewing IT [based] equipment {zhuangbei}. To this end, they must invest more funds $\{ zij i n \}$
; but they cannot, in order to buy more weapons and ammunition $\{ wuq ida nya o \}$ , reduce the research and
development [R&D] {yanzhi} outlays in C3 technology and equipment respects.

# 6. Principle of compatibility {jianrong}

The principle of compatibility emphasizes that all types of information systems not only must avoid system vulnerability
{cuiruoxing} brought about by standardized design {biaozhunhua sheji}, but also must overcome the joint operations
requirements {lianhe zuozhan yaoqiu} independently developed by all services in the past, which could not achieve
interconnection and intercommunication $\{ hul ian hut ong \}$ , which could not realize sharing {gongxiang} of
resources and information, which lacked unified security and secrecy {tongyide anquan baomi} measures, which had low
integrated-whole operational effectiveness {zhengti zuozhan xiaoneng}, and which could not be adapted to fairly low
ranks {jibie}. Within informationized war, [commanders] should pursue diversification and mutually compatible {xianghu
jianrong} C3 systems, and further perfect global control systems {quanqiu kongzhi xitong} which are interoperable
{kecaozuo}, have resources sharing, are highly mobile {jidong}, are seamlessly interconnected {wufengxi lianjie}, and
have high survivability.

# 7. Principle of differential {级差 jicha}

The principle of differential emphasizes not fighting a low-rank war {dijibie de zhanzheng} with a low-rank enemy. It
holds that if Information Age armed forces are faced with Agricultural Age or Industrial Age armed forces, they should
not fight an Agricultural Age or Industrial Age war, but rather an Information Age war. Since the battlefield
environment under informationized conditions shows a good many inherent weak points, the adversary will fully exploit
these weak points to conduct operations against the friendly side. Since the engaging sides {jiaozhan shuangfang} when
confronted with the “fog of war” both will be extremely vulnerable, both will need to carry out signal communication
{tongxin lianluo}. However, under the usual circumstances, IT can ensure that the friendly side will not encounter the
adversary’s surprise raids $\{ tur anx iji \}$ ; it enables the adversary’s maneuver {jidong} and reinforcement activity
$\{ zen gyu a n \ huo don g \}$ to be always within friendly surveillance and grasp, and may subject the adversary to
friendly attacks. Hence, commanders should seek to have the “fog of war” confronting the operational opponent become
denser and disrupt the enemy’s methods of communication, and employ better intelligence means and weapons with better
strike precision {daji jingdu} and higher effectiveness and lethality {shashangli} to cleverly conduct operations. [end
of page 396]

# II. IO strengths of the US military…397

The IO strengths are the material basis for carrying out IO missions. In recent years, the US military, according to the
needs $\left\{ xiq i u \right\}$ of IO theory, has given impetus to IO strength building {liliang jianshe}, and in the
units of all services has energetically developed IO units and equipment. The US military’s IO strengths mainly are
composed of EW, PSYOP, and CNO strengths.

(1) Electronic warfare strengths

# 1. Navy EW strengths

The US Navy EW force-strengths $\{ bin gli \}$ are completely woven into the Navy’s operational units {haijun zuozhan
budui}, and are under the command of the Chief of Naval Operations {haijun zuozhan buzhang}. Altogether they are
organized into 16 EW aircraft squadrons {zhongdui}, and each squadron is organized to have 4 EA-6B EW aircraft.

The Pacific Fleet aviation forces {taipingyang jiandui hangkongbing} are organized into 9 EA-6B EW aircraft squadrons,
the Atlantic Fleet {daxiyang jiandui} aviation forces are organized into 6 EA-6B EW squadrons, and the Naval Reserves
{haijun yubeidui} aviation forces have 1 EA-6B EW squadron.

Medium-sized and larger operational ships {zhongxing yishang de zuozhan jianzhi}, such as aircraft carriers {hangkong
mujian}, battleships {zhanliejian}, cruisers $\{ xun yan gji a n \}$ , destroyers {quzhujian}, frigates [escort vessels]
{huweijian}, amphibious ships $\{ lia ngq iji a n \}$ , and auxiliaries {fuzhujian}, as well as the operations
departments of submarines {qianting de zuozhan bumen}, all are organized to have the corresponding EW sub-units $\{
\boldsymbol { q } udu i \}$ .

# 2. Air Force EW strengths

The US Air Force [USAF] EW units adopt the air group {dadui} or squadron organizational structure $\{ bia nzh i \}$ ,
and are mainly equipped with special-purpose electronic jamming aircraft and anti-radiation missile [ARM] {fanfushe
daodan} attack aircraft {gongji feiji}.

USAF altogether organizes 6 squadrons of special-purpose electronic jamming aircraft, each squadron organized with 5
EC-130H [“Compass Call”] EW aircraft, except for 2 of these squadrons, which each are organized with 7 EC-130H EW
aircraft. The other 4 combat aircraft {zhandouji} squadrons are organized to have up to 10 FC-16CJ (capable of executing
EW missions) [“Fighting Falcon”] aircraft.

# 3. Marine Corps {haijun luzhandui} EW strengths

The US Marine Corp [USMC] aviation forces’ EW units are organized into 4 squadrons of EA-6B EW [end of page 397]
aircraft, each squadron organized with 5 EA6B EW aircraft. The ground EW units are organized into 2 ground EW battalions
{dimian dianzizhan ying}, respectively attached {peishu} to the Pacific and Atlantic Fleet Marine Commands {luzhandui
silingbu}.

# 4. Army {lujun} EW strengths

The US Army’s active-duty $\{ xia nyi \}$ operational units altogether are organized to have 11 intelligence brigades
{qingbao lu}, 18 military intelligence battalions {junshi qingbao ying}, and 17 military intelligence companies {junshi
qingbao lian}. In addition, the Army Intelligence and Security Command [INSCOM] {lujun qingbao yu baomi silingbu} also
organizes 6 military intelligence groups {junshi qingbao dadui}.

(i) Corps-subordinate EW units {junshu dianzizhan budui}

The US Army’s various corps each are organized with 1 military intelligence brigade, mainly organized into a HQ $\{ sil
ing b u \}$ , associated directly subordinate detachments, operations battalion $\{ zuo zha nyi n g \}$ , tactical
exploitation battalion $\{ zha nsh uli yon gyi n g \}$ , and air exploitation battalion $\{ kon gzh ong liy ong yin g
\}$ . Their main mission is to exploit the strengths and means within the task organization {biancheng} to provide the
corps and all of its subordinate divisions with operational intelligence, imagery intelligence [IMINT] {tuxiang
qingbao}, and signals intelligence [SIGINT] {xinhao qingbao} support , as well as with EW support and
counterintelligence {fanqingbao} support. Of these, the main mission of the HQ and its directly subordinate detachments
is to provide the planning, management, and adjusting-coordination needed for employing the intelligence brigade
force-strengths. The main missions of the military intelligence brigade’s operations center include the following: under
the guidance $\{ zhi dao \}$ of the military intelligence brigade commander, to be responsible for planning and
management and for implementing technical control of and mission distribution {renwu fenpei} for the brigade’s force
strengths; to process intercepted {zhenshou} SIGINT and EW data, and arrange and publish $\{ zhe ngl i , bia nyi n \}$
the SIGINT; to carry out contact with and exchange data with the technical control and analysis teams {jishu kongzhi he
fenxi zu} of the divisions, armored cavalry regiments {zhuangjia qibing tuan}, and independent brigades; and to maintain
contact with corps-level and higher command institutions {zhihui jigou} and national associated systems {guojia
xiangguan xitong}, so as to realize fusion of the technical data {jishu shuju ronghe} generated by tactical units with
technical data of the national-level associated systems. The main missions of the operations battalion are as follows:
to be responsible for providing support detachments {fendui} used for reinforcing {jiaqiang} the tactical operations
centers of the corps intelligence officer and operations officer, and for providing 1 technical control and analysis
team, used for supporting the intelligence brigade operations officer’s unit management and to the corps intelligence
officer’s SIGINT data analysis; and to provide communication support to the intelligence brigade. The tactical
exploitation battalion is the element {fendui} which mainly executes electronic offense {dianzi jingong} missions. Its
main missions are as follows: to provide the corps and its main subordinate detachments with ground [end of page 398]
EW, interrogation of prisoners of war [POWs] {shenfu}, and counterintelligence support; and when obtaining corps
higherlevel echelon reinforcement {jun shangji tidui jiaqiang}, it also must provide technical intelligence,
particularly collection and technical support. The air exploitation battalion’s main missions are as follows: to provide
the corps with air surveillance {kongzhong jianshi} and air SIGINT support, and to provide communication intelligence
[COMINT] $\{ ton gxi nqi ngb a o \}$ and electronic intelligence [ELINT] {dianzi qingbao} support. The corps-subordinate
intelligence brigade is mainly used for dealing with enemy $1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }$ -echelon division(s) within the
corps operations zone $\{ zuo zha n ~ diy u \}$ , while the mission of dealing with the enemy’s $2 ^ { \mathrm { n d }
}$ echelon then is given support by USAF systems and national systems.

(ii) Division-subordinate EW units {shishu dianzizhan budui}

US Army infantry divisions $\{ bub ing shi \}$ , armored divisions {zhuangjia shi}, mechanized divisions {jiexiehua
shi}, air assault divisions $\{ kon gzh ong tuj ish i \}$ , and air landing divisions $\{ kon gji ang shi \}$ all are
organized with military intelligence battalions, and mainly are organized with battalion HQs {yingbu} and with
operations companies $\{ zuo zha nli a n \}$ , intelligence and surveillance companies {qingbao yu jianshi lian}, and
service support companies {qinwu zhiyuan lian}. Their main mission is to provide the division commander with
intelligence, EW, and counterintelligence support, and at the same time to support all operational activities of the
division. In this, the main mission of the battalion HQ and operations company is to be responsible for the
adjustingcoordination, organization, and implementation of intelligence and EW work; the battalion commander usually
controls and guides all military intelligence resources within the organizational system {jianzhi}, as well as those of
the attached supply divisions {配属给师 peishu jishi} and support divisions. The battalion operations center mainly is
responsible for putting into effect unified management of the organizationalsystem resources and support resources of
the battalion, to meet the intelligence and EW requirements of the division intelligence officer and operations officer;
the EW company is the element which mainly executes electronic offense missions, its main mission being to provide the
division with EW support and SIGINT support. The main missions of the EW platoon $\{ pai \}$ are to be responsible for
intelligence collection and analysis, as well as organizing and implementing electronic jamming, and to provide the
brigade with battlefield surveillance and OPSEC support. One EW platoon usually supports 1 brigade or the operational
activities within the brigade operations zone; a SIGINT processing platoon can perform certain processing of intercepted
signals {jiehuo xinhao}; and the intelligence and surveillance company is responsible for providing the division with
ground radar surveillance {dimian leida jianshi}, counterintelligence, and POWinterrogation support. The service support
company is responsible for providing the battalion with provisions, service, and mechanical and communication electronic
maintenance $\{ wei h u \}$ , as well as communication support. The division, besides the resources within the
organizational system, usually also can obtain the support of the corps-subordinate EW companies’ operations platoons.
The division-subordinate military intelligence battalions mainly are used for dealing with an enemy division’s $1 ^ {
\mathrm { s t } }$ echelon. [end of page 399]

(iii) Regiment (brigade)-subordinate EW units {tuan (lu) shu dianzizhan budui}

The US Army’s armored cavalry regiments or independent brigades all are organized with military intelligence companies,
each company having under its command a communication platoon, operational support platoon, surveillance platoon,
collection and jamming platoon $\{ sou jiy uga nra opa i \}$ , and technical control and analysis detachment, as well as
a flight platoon {feixing pai}. Of these, the main mission of the communication platoon is to provide personnel and
facilities equipment for managing or employing the company’s telecom business affairs $\{ dia nxi nsh ang w u \}$ and
radioteletypes [RTTY] {wuxiandian dianchuan daziji}. The main mission of the surveillance platoon is to provide a ground
surveillance radar team {dimian jianshi leida zu} for battlefield surveillance and early warning, to adapt to missions
assigned {fenpei} by the regimental tactical center’s support detachment. The collection and jamming platoon is the
element which mainly executes electronic offense missions, its main mission being to carry out collection of voice
communication $\{ yuy int ong xin \}$ , so as to carry out highfrequency [HF] or very-high-frequency [VHF] communication
jamming {gaopin huo shengaopin tongxin ganrao}. The technical control and analysis detachment is set up in a military
intelligence company’s tactical operations center; its main missions are to receive electronic jamming missions assigned
by an armored cavalry regiment’s operations officer or firepower support detachment, and SIGINT and electronic
reconnaissance {dianzi zhencha} missions assigned by the intelligence officer, and to specifically assign these missions
within the military intelligence company, as well as carry out technical control. The flight platoon is set up in the
combat aviation squadron {zhandou hangkong zhongdui}; its main missions are to receive operational control by the
technical control and analysis detachment, and to supplement {buchong} the ground EW resources by providing airborne
communication intercept {jizai tongxin jieshou}, direction finding {cexiang}, and jamming support.

(2) Network warfare [CNO] strengths {wangluozhan liliang}

Beginning in the 1980s, the US military set about establishing CNO units {jisuanji wangluozhan budui}, whose main
missions are key point guarding against {zhongdian fangfan} computer information leaks $\{ xie lou \}$ , soft- and
hard-kill {ruanying shashang} attacks suffered by computers, and computer virus {jisuanji bingdu} and computer hacker
{heike} attacks.

# 1. Navy network warfare strengths

US Navy units associated with conducting CNO mainly include the following: the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
[OpNav] {haijun zuozhan bu} Naval Network Operations Command [NNOC or NAVNETOPSCOM] {haijun wangluo zuozhan silingbu},
and its subordinate Navy/Marine Corps Intranet Task Force {neilianwang teqiandui}, the Navy Computer and
Telecommunications Command [NAVCOMTELCOM] {haijun jisuanji yu dianxin silingbu}, and the Navy Computer Network Defense
[CND] Task Force {haijun jisuanji wangluo fangyu teqiandui}. Their main missions are to carry out surveillance,
reconnaissance, analysis, and reporting of “intrusion incidents” {“ruqin shijian”} of unauthorized intrusion into
{weishouquan chuangru} US Navy networks, and to adopt responsive measures. [end of page 400]

# 2. Air Force network warfare strengths

USAF units associated with conducting CNO mainly include the following: Pacific Air Forces’ [PACAF] {taipingyang kongjun
siingbu} Seventh Air Force {di 7 hangkong bu}, $6 0 7 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ Air Intelligence Group {kongzhong qingbao
dadui}, $6 0 7 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ IW Flight {xinxizhan xiaodui}; Air Combat Command’s [ACC] {kongzhong zuozhan
silingbu} Air Intelligence Agency $\{ kon gju nqi ngb aoj u \}$ , $9 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ IO squadron and $3 1 8 ^ { \mathrm { t h
} }$ IO Group (under which are the $2 3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ IO Squadron, $3 9 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ IO Squadron, and
$9 2 ^ { \mathrm { n d } }$ IO Intruders Squadron {xinxi zuozhan ruqinzhe zhongdui}); Air Intelligence Center’s $5 3 ^ {
\mathrm { r d } }$ Computer System Squadron; Eighth Air Force’s $6 7 ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ IO Wing {liandui} (under
which are the $2 6 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ , $6 9 2 ^ { \mathrm { n d } }$ , $6 7 ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ , and $5 4 4
^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ IO Groups) and $6 9 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ IO Group (under which is the $6 9 0 ^ { \mathrm { t
h } }$ Computer Support Squadron); and the Ninth Air Force’s $6 0 9 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ IO Squadron, which is the
computer contingency response detachment {jisuanji yingji fanying fendui} with the highest professional standards
{zhuanye shuiping} among all services. This detachment, mainly via downloading {xiazai} situations of accessing
{fangwen} computer networks over the previous 24 hours, grasps activity of unlawful intrusion {feifa ruqiin} into
information networks, in real time detects activity of unlawful intrusion into information networks, and adopts
information defense measures having a directed [focused] quality {zhenduixing}.

# 3. Army network warfare strengths

The US Army, in order to organize and conduct CNO, specially established the $1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }$ IO Command {xinxi
zuozhan silingbu} within INSCOM. This command is responsible for adjusting-coordinating and guiding the defense of Army
computer systems and networks, as well as adjusting-coordinating and conducting computer attacks {jisuanji gongji} in
order to realize the intent $\{ yit u \}$ of the operational command commanders {zuozhan silingbu siling}. The Office of
the Chief, Army Reserve [OCAR] {mei lujun houbeiyiju juzhang bangongshi} also established the Army Reserve IW Command
$\{ xin xiz han sil ing b u \}$ , composed of a certain number of computer contingency response units {xiaodui},
information infrastructure defensive support units {fangyu yuanzhu xiaodui}, technical research units, and subordinate
networks; its main mission is to conduct CND and information support {baozhang}. Of these, the main missions of the
computer contingency response units are to carry out identification $\{ shi bie \}$ , response, analysis, and reporting
of or to computer intrusion incidents, and to implement continuous surveillance of the Defense Research and Engineering
Network [DREN] {guofang yanjiu yu gongcheng wang}; the main mission of the information infrastructure defensive support
units is to provide weak point evaluation assessment {ruodian pinggu} and network and computer ruggedizing services
{jiagu fuwu}, and to provide support {zhichi} to the DoD Information Technology [end of page 401] Security Certification
and Accreditation Process [DITSCAP] {anquan renzheng yu jianding jihua}; and the main missions of the technical research
units are to be responsible for verifying security technology {yanzheng baomi jishu}, skills, and programs $\{ che ngx u
\}$ , and to carry out security testing {baomi shiyan} and evaluation.

# (3) PSYOP strengths

To strengthen command of PSYOP, the US military has established specialized PSYOP command institutions. Strategic-level
PSYOP command institutions mainly include the International Communication Agency [ICA] {guoji jiaoliu shu} and the Joint
Public Affairs Department of the National Security Council [NSC]. Campaign-level PSYOP command institutions mainly include the temporary-quality {linshixing} PSYOP command institutions composed of
related personnel from the theater commands {zhanqu silingbu}, Special Operations Command [SOCOM] {tezhong zuozhan
silingbu}, and PSYOP units $\{ bud u i \}$ . The tactical level, then, is specifically organized and conducted mainly by
the various PSYOP support companies.

# 1. Navy PSYOP strengths

The Office of the Chief of Naval Operations [OpNav] is the execution department and supreme decision-making institution
for commanding naval PSYOP activities. Naval Special War Group 1 and Group 2 {di1, di2 tezhong zuozhan dadui} under the
Naval Special Warfare Command [NAVSPECWARCOM, NAVSOC, or NSWC] {haijun tezhong zuozhan silingbu} undertake PSYOP
missions, and are responsible for the application of PSYOP within naval special operations.

# 2. Air Force PSYOP strengths

Air Force Special Operations Command [AFSOC] {kongjun tezhong zuozhan silingbu} is responsible for the organization and
application of PSYOP within Air Force special operations. The Air Force IW Center set up under the Air Intelligence
Agency {kongzhong qingbao ju} [now the Air Force ISR Agency] is responsible for the formulation of PSYOP plans, and
provides PSYOP training $\left\{ xun lia n \right\}$ for the related personnel. All major commands [MAJCOMs] {da
silingbu} of the Air Force are responsible for the associated training and for adjusting-coordinating the associated
intelligence, feedback, logistics {houqin}, and communication support. The $1 9 3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ Special
Operations Squadron under the command of the $1 9 3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ Special Operations Wing subordinate to AFSOC
is equipped with EC-130E PSYOP aircraft {xinlizhan feiji}. Besides undertaking regular support missions, it also
provides PSYOP units $\{ bud u i \}$ with radio/wireless communication interrupt {无线电通讯中断 wuxiandian tongxun zhongduan}
and TV rebroadcast {dianshi zhuanbo} missions.

# 3. Army PSYOP strengths

The US Army Staff {lujun canmoubu} is the executing department and high-level advisory [body] {gaoji guwen} for
commanding Army PSYOP, and is the supreme decision-making institution for PSYOP activities. Army Special Operations
Command [USASOC] {lujun tezhong zuozhan silingbu} [end of page 402] is responsible for the application of PSYOP within
Army special operations. Within the commands subordinate to USASOC there is 1 Army Directorate of Civil Affairs and
Psychological Operations {lujun minshi yu xinxlizhan silingbu}. The main missions of this directorate are to be
responsible for formulating wartime PSYOP plans, to participate in peacetime PSYOP exercises, to guide the training of
[Army] Reserve PSYOP units, and to be responsible for providing PSYOP consultations $\{ zix u n \}$ to the
next-higher-level commands.

At present, the US military’s PSYOP units include 1 active-duty PSYOP group {dadui} (also called the $4 ^ { \mathrm { t
h } }$ PSYOP Group) and 2 Army Reserve PSYOP groups. Under the command of the $4 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ PSYOP Group are
6 PSYOP battalions; these are the core for all of the US military’s PSYOP units, and are equipped with printing and
copying equipment, fixed and mobile transceivers, TV and film instruments $\{ qix i e \}$ , radio intercept {wuxiandian
zhenting} [equipment], and communication facilities equipment which can automatically carry out information processing.
The PSYOP battalions subordinate to the PSYOP groups are divided into four types $\{ lei \} \colon$ general support
battalions, direct support battalions, POW work $\{ zha nfu gon gzu o \}$ support battalions, and mass work $\{ min zho
ngg ong zuo \}$ support battalions. The PSYOP companies are the units {danwei} subordinate to the battalions, and mainly
include the following: printing companies, [radio] broadcasting companies {guangbo lian}, communication companies, area
support companies, propaganda companies, and PSYOP research and analysis companies. The $2 ^ { \mathrm { n d } }$ and $7
^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ Army Reserve PSYOP Groups each have command over 4 PSYOP battalions. They are mainly responsible
for conducting reconnaissance within the theater scope, for providing technology and instrument equipment {jishu qicai}
for the organizational-structure propaganda materials {bianzhi xuanchuan cailiao} of other PSYOP units within the root
theater, and for performing work with POWs and occupiedarea inhabitants $\{ zha nli ngq uju min \}$ ; within corps and
division HQs {silingbu}, they draft $\{ niz h i \}$ plans for conducting tactical PSYOP, and ensure the realization of
the campaign resolution {zhanyi juexin}.

# III. Main activities of the US military’s IO…403

The US military divides IO into two large types: offensive [quality] IO activities {jingongxing xinxi zuozhan xingdong}
and defensive [quality] IO activities {fangyuxing xinxi zuozhan xingdong}.

(1) Offensive IO activities

Offensive IO activities include EW, CNO, PSYOP, OPSEC, and MILDEC. Some of these activities belong to the
indirect-quality {jianjiexing} ones, such as PSYOP, OPSEC, and MILDEC, while EW and CNO [end of page 403] belong to
direct-quality offensive activities. The US military holds that in the specific implementation process, the above
activities must be integrated in application {zonghe yunyong}.

# 1. Electronic warfare

The US military holds that EW is an important form {形式 xingshi} of IO, and within IO the US military emphasizes
regarding EW mandatorily used in the first battle {shouzhan biyong} and penetrating from start to finish as an important
means for winning wars. Via integrated application of a variety of offensive and defensive tactics and techniques, one
influences, corrupts {raoluan}, and $[ / \mathrm { o r } ]$ exploits the enemy’s use of the EM spectrum, and at the same
time protects the friendly use of the EM spectrum. EW signifies military activities which employ EM energy and $[ /
\mathrm { o r } ]$ directed energy {dingxiang neng} to control the EM spectrum or to attack the enemy. Usually it is divided into three types: electronic
attack, electronic protection {dianzi fanghu}, and EW support.

Electronic attack is the basic means of offensive-quality IO. Mainly via means such as use of electronic jamming,
electronic deception {dianzi qipian}, and directedenergy or anti-radiation weapons {dingxiang neng huo fanfushe wuqi},
one attacks the enemy’s personnel and installations {sheshi} or equipment, prevents the enemy’s effective use of the EM
spectrum, and [thus] achieves the goals of destroying, weakening, or disrupting {pohuai} the enemy’s combat power
{zhandouli}. Electronic attack usually is employed in combination with other attacking $\{ gon gji xin g \}$ means, such
as integrated implementation of electronic attack and lethal-quality firepower {shashangxing huoli}, and thus can become
a “multiplier” {“beizengqi”} of combat power.

Electronic protection signifies the self-protective {ziwo baohuxing} electronic jamming and electronic radiation control
activities adopted in order to protect the friendly use of the EM spectrum.

EW support [or electronic support measures (ESM)] signifies carrying out detection, identification, and positioning
{tance, shibie he dingwei} of the enemy’s intentional or unintentional EM-energy radiation sources {fusheyuan};
assisting commanders at all levels in grasping and understanding the battlefield posture {zhanchang taishi}; and
assessing {panduan} the threat coming from the enemy. EW support mainly indicates services $\{ \mathit { 4 uwu } \}$ to
conduct electronic attack and electronic protection plus other tactical activities, such as providing the needed
information for decision-making on target positioning $\{ mub iao \ din gwe i \}$ , target vectoring {mubiao yindao},
and threat warning $\{ wei xie \ : bao jin g \}$ . It is the embodiment of the timely reaction capability between combat
information and the sensor-shooter system {chuanganqi– sheshou xitong}. EW support generally is conducted during
peacetime periods, but also can be carried out in crisis or conflict periods. [end of page 404]

# 2. Computer network operations

Computer network attack [CNA] {jisuanji wangluo gongji} indicates the various activities to carry out corruption,
blocking $\{ z u ^ { \prime } a i \}$ , weakening, or disruption of the information or computers residing within
computer networks, and against the computer networks themselves. The US military’s current CNA mainly relies on data
flow to execute the attacks, and usually is divided into three modes $\{ mos h i \}$ : system of systems [SoS]
sabotage/disruption mode {tixi pohuai moshi}, information misleading mode {信 息误导模式 xinxi wudao moshi}, and integrated
mode $\{ zon ghe \ : mos h i \}$ . The SoS sabotage/disruption mode, mainly via methods such as transmission of computer
viruses and logic bombs {luoji zhadan}, disrupts the enemy’s computers and network SoS, and creates paralysis of the
enemy C2 system. The information misleading mode mainly transmits false intelligence {jiaqingbao} to enemy computers and
network systems, to alter the functions $\{ gon gne n g \}$ of the enemy information systems, and carry out information misleading and flow-path misleading $\{ liu che ngw uda o \}$ of enemy decisionmaking and C2. The integrated
mode, then, via integrated application of the SoS sabotage/disruption mode and the information misleading mode, obtains
the optimal attack effects, and [thus] achieves the goal of CNA.

# 3. PSYOP

The US military holds that PSYOP indicates, via transmission of pre-selected information and evidence {zhengzhao} to the
foreign populace, influencing of their sentiment, motives, and objective inference $\{ keg uan tui l i \}$ , and
ultimately influencing their government, organizations, groups $\{ tua nti \}$ , and individual behavior. Its goal is to
lure {yinyou} or impel the foreign nation’s attitude and activities toward development in a direction favorable to
friendly objectives. The US military feels that, in terms of directly shaking the enemy’s war conviction {zhanzheng
xinnian} and destroying the enemy’s spirit and will for carrying out war, PSYOP possesses powerful might $\{ wei l i \}$
not possessed by other operational patterns. The US military holds that soft and hard combined {ruanying jiehe} PSYOP
already has become the highest-level operational pattern within IW, and already has risen to a strategic means which can
directly shake the enemy’ war will {zhanzheng yizhi}, and achieve the goal of troops who subdue the enemy without a
battle $\{$ 不战而屈人之兵 buzhan er quren zhibing}.

PSYOP according to its application level can be divided into strategic-level PSYOP {zhanlueji xinlizhan}, campaign-level
PSYOP {zhanyiji xinlizhan}, and tacticallevel PSYOP {zhanshuji xinlizhan}. Strategic-level PSYOP usually adopts forms
such as declaring a political stance or diplomatic stance, and issuing public announcements or communiqués, to influence
the enemy’s decision-making layer. [end of page 405] Campaign-level PSYOP usually applies means such as dispersal of
leaflets, loudspeaker broadcasts, radio {diantai} or TV broadcasts, network propaganda, and other information
propagation means, to persuade the enemy to defect {pantao}, desert {kaixiaocha}, or surrender. Persistent $\{ chi jiu
\}$ campaign-level PSYOP offensives $\{ xin liz han gon gsh i \}$ are “multipliers” of entire operational activities;
they can accelerate disintegration of enemy morale $\{ waj ied iju nsh iqi \}$ , and in psychological terms put the
enemy to rout {jikua diren}. Tactical-level PSYOP usually employs battlefield propaganda directed to the enemy at the
front line {zhanchang hanhua} and other means to increase the enemy’s sense of fear, break up the enemy’s internal unity
{neibu de tuanjie}, and weaken the enemy’s combat power. In addition, PSYOP also can, via propaganda means such as the
media, conceal the true situation {掩盖事实真相 yangai shishi zhenxiang} and complement the MILDEC activities.

# 4. OPSEC

The goal of OPSEC is to prevent the enemy from acquiring important information related to friendly military activities,
so as to prolong the enemy’s decision-making cycle. Battlefield intelligence brings into play an important role in
victory or defeat in modern war, and intelligence which is inadequate or intelligence which is inaccurate can create enormous losses. Hence, the US military emphasizes that one must try various devices { 想方设法 xiangfang sheaf} to prevent
the enemy commander from acquiring the necessary information, to force the enemy into having no way of acquiring
accurate and timely battlefield situation, and thus achieve the goal of influencing the enemy’s decision-making and
military activities. OPSEC is applicable to all military activities at all levels of commands/HQs {silingbu}.

OPSEC is a continuous process, and penetrates the entire process from peacetime to crisis and conflict, and back to
peacetime; moreover, it possesses very strong practicality {实用性 shiyongxing} and operability {caozuoxing}. OPSEC also is
a set of methods applicable to any operation and military activity, and is directly used for interfering with the
enemy’s acquisition of important information. The missions of OPSEC include the following: to detect friendly actions
$\{ xin gwe i \}$ which are easily observed by the enemy intelligence systems; to determine the various types of data
which the enemy intelligence systems can acquire and use for deciphering $\{ poy i \}$ and grasping friendly important
information; and to adopt measures to eliminate friendly weak points which can be exploited by the enemy, or to reduce
them to an acceptable level.

The implementation of OPSEC usually is divided into five steps: the first is identifying important information. From the
viewpoint of enemy collection of intelligence, [this involves] assessing which pieces of friendly information are of the
utmost importance to the enemy. [end of page 406] OPSEC is not at all [just] keeping secret $\{ bao m i \}$ all
classified information {yiqie shemi xinxi}; the key point of the secrecy is “information of the utmost importance” to
the enemy. Second is analyzing the threats. From among intelligence and open-source information $\{ gon gka ide xin x i
\}$ , one analyzes the enemy intention $\{ qit u \}$ , operational objectives {zuozhan mubiao}, and intelligence
collection capability, plus friendly critical information $\{ gua nji exi nxi \}$ which the enemy can already have
grasped, and assesses the threats which can be faced by the friendly side. Third is analyzing the weak points. Combining
these with the enemy’s intelligence collection capability, one analyzes the friendly activities’ vulnerabilities
{cuoruoxing} and critical information whose signs $\{ zhe ngh o u \}$ can be revealed. Fourth is evaluating the risks
{pinggu fengxian}. Analyzing vulnerable positions $\{ cui ruo \ buw e i \}$ , one evaluates and determines the
corresponding measures for eliminating the weak points, and the effects of those measures. Fifth is adopting OPSEC
activities. Usually these include three types of activities: activities control $\{ xin gdo ngk ong zhi \}$ , resistance
$\{ dui kan g \}$ , and counter-analysis {fanfenxi}. The objective of activities control is to eliminate the activities
signs and weak points which the enemy intelligence systems can exploit. The objectives of resistance are to disrupt the
information collected by the enemy, and to render the enemy unable to identify the signs within the information. Its
main measures include luring the enemy, camouflage $\{ wei zhu ang \}$ , concealment {yincang}, and interfering with or
using armed force $\{ \vec { \mathbb { E } } \} \mathcal { I } \ wul i \}$ to eliminate the enemy’s intelligence
collection and processing strengths. The objective of counteranalysis is to obstruct the enemy’s accurate reading $\{
jie d u \}$ of the signs, and its main measure is to conduct deception. Sixth is evaluating the effects $\{ xia ogu o
\}$ , and adjusting the measures. After adopting security activities {baomi xingdong}, the friendly intelligence systems still must continue to surveil the enemy’s response to these measures, evaluate their effects, and
further adopt activities.

# 5. MILDEC

MILDEC signifies activities adopted to deliberately mislead the enemy’s military decision-makers {juecezhe} in regard to
friendly military strengths, operational intention {zuozhan qitu}, and operational activities. It lures the enemy into
adopting or halting certain activities, so as to create favorable conditions for the friendly side to fulfill its
missions. Via MILDEC activities, one renders the enemy commander unable to accurately understand the friendly side’s
offensive capability or intention, and thus unable to most effectively apply his combat units or support units. The
operational objective of MILDEC usually requires targeting $\{ zhi xia n g \}$ the enemy leaders having supreme
decision-making authority $\{ zui gao jue ceq uan \}$ , and the means applied usually include physical means, technical
means, and management means.

Commanders at all levels all can plan {guihua} and conduct MILDEC, but the deception plan {qipian jihua} must [end of
page 407] be formulated from the top down. The subordinate joint force commanders {lianhe budui zhihuiguan $\}$ should
take initiative $\{ zhu don g \}$ to adjust-coordinate with the higher levels; moreover, the lower levels must submit to
the higher levels, to ensure the consistency of the entire deception activities plan. MILDEC is a forceful means within
integrated-whole operations, but in organizing MILDEC one usually must pay a certain price. Commanders at all levels and
their staff personnel must closely $\{ miq i e \}$ watch the development of the state of affairs $\{ shi tai \}$ , at
all times weigh the advantages and disadvantages {quanheng libi}, and timely adjust the activities plan.

Intelligence is of the utmost importance to MILDEC, and is the basic foundation for determining the deception
objectives. MILDEC activities require grasping the characteristics of the enemy’s leadership layer and the process of
its decision-making, and then forecasting {yuce} the activities which the enemy can adopt. Forecasting is the critical
link $\{ gua nji anh uan jie \}$ in conducting MILDEC; only by accurately forecasting at what time and place the enemy
will adopt what type of military activities can one accurately determine the MILDEC’s operational objectives.
Intelligence not only is the key to ensuring that MILDEC content is genuine and believable {zhenshi kexin}, but also is
the foundation for evaluating the MILDEC effects and thus adopting other activities. The enemy’s intelligence systems
usually are not the objects {duixiang} of the deception, but are the channels which the deception must exploit.

# (2) Defensive IO activities

The US military’s defensive IO involves the integrated application of various means — information secrecy {xinxi baomi},
physical security $\{ wul ian qua n \}$ , counterdeception {fanqipian}, counter-propaganda {fanxuanchuan},
counterintelligence, EW, and special IO {tezhong xinxi zuozhan} — to protect and defend {fangwei} the security of
friendly information and information systems. Its goals are to ensure friendly acquisition of information in a timely,
accurate, and reliable manner, and to the maximum extent restrict the enemy from achieving his intention to exploit
friendly information and information systems. Its main activities are composed of four mutually correlated {xianghu
guanlian} processes: information environment protection, information attack detection $\{ xin xig ong jij ian c e \}$ ,
information capability restoration, and information attack response $\{ xin xig ong jif any ing \}$ .

# 1. Information environment protection

The US military holds that the goals of information environment protection are to establish a protective layer for
friendly information and information systems, and to prevent the enemy’s intrusion into friendly systems, or reduce the
threat and possibility of enemy intrusions. The content of information environment protection mainly includes hardware
copying {ruanjian kaobei} (messages, [end of page 408] letters, faxes), and EM spectrum, video {shipin}, imagery $\{ tux
ian g \}$ , audio {yinpin}, cable $\{ dia nba o \}$ , and computer content.

During implementation of information environment protection, the joint forces commander [JFCDR] {lianhe budui
zhihuiguan} must determine the protection scope and protection standards {baohu biaozhun}, conduct an analysis which
synthetically integrates {zonghe yiti} the protected information environment and information systems (including military
and non-military information systems) and the installations, and put the emphasis on analyzing the dependence and
vulnerability {yisunxing} of the joint operation’s various phases on the information environment. On the basis of
conducting the vulnerability analysis and evaluation appraisal, he applies the rules {fagui} and various security
management measures to implement effective protection of the information environment. The protection of the information
environment should include carrying out planning with protection of information sources as its basis. The information’s
value undergoes changes following on its [use] in the different phases of military activities, and this value should be
the basis for determining the information which must be protected and the protection standards. This [determination]
reflects the changes in the information value during the different operational phases, and is included within the
protection of the information environment.

# 2. Information attack detection

Information attack detection is the swift discovery of the type {leixing} of information attack and its degree of harm
{weihai chengdu} to friendly information and information systems, to provide a basis for implementing defense. The US
military holds that timely and reliable information attack detection is the key to enabling information capability
restoration and to effecting rapid response to the enemy attack. The content of information attack detection mainly
includes the following: all services’ IW centers will receive and issue alerts {jingbao} about friendly computer
networks suffering attacks, plus prepare and implement technical responses, and prepare and issue analysis reports;

information system developers {kaifazhe} should, during design and development {yanzhi} of automated information
systems, design a variety of security measures; information system providers {tigongzhe} and system management personnel
should establish a set of management procedures $\{ gua nli che ngx u \}$ , regularly carry out risk assessment and
detection $\{ fen gxi anp ing guy uji anc e \}$ , be able to timely identify anomalies arising within system functions,
and adopt the corresponding measures to reduce the influence produced by the enemy attack; and information and
information systems users {shiyongzhe} should be able to understand the information systems’ own inherent weak links,
and be able to carry out identification of anomalous incidents {yichang shijian} and of unexplained information
alteration $\{ xin xig eng gai \}$ , as well as of jamming information $\{ gan rao \ xin x i \}$ . [end of page 409]

# 3. Information attack response

Information attack response indicates the responsive activities adopted by the US military after friendly information
systems suffer an enemy attack. The US military requires that after encountering an enemy attack, one should timely
identify the information attacker $\{ gon gji zhe \}$ , ascertain his/their intention, and, based on the nature of the
information attacker’s activities, adopt responsive activities. The options {xuanxiang} for responsive activities mainly
include legal compulsion {falyu qiangzhi}, diplomatic activity, economic sanctions, and military activities. Of these,
the military activities on the battlefield include the use of soft and hard kill means, and direct elimination or
interruption of the means or systems which the enemy uses to conduct IO.

# 4. Information capability restoration

Information capability restoration signifies activities in which the US military, after its information systems suffer
an enemy attack, relies on already established programs/procedures {chengxu} and mechanisms {jizhi} to restore the
systems’ basic functions according to priority level {youxian dengji}. The US military’s restoration of the information
systems’ basic functions mainly is done by or at the computer contingency response teams {jisuanji yingji fanying
xiaozu} and $[ / \mathrm { o r } ]$ security incident response centers {anquan shijian fanying zhongxin} established by
DoD and the various services. They have developed avenues such as automated intrusion detection systems {zidong ruqin
jiance xitong}, which boost rapid recovery capability after information systems suffer an attack.

# IV. IO capabilities of the US military…410

Under the pulling of IO theory, the US military over recent years has annually increased the funds invested in IO
weapons and equipment {wuqi zhuangbei}, adjusted and built an organizational structure $\{ bia nzh i \}$ for IO forces
in the units of its various services and arms $\{ gej unb ing zho n g \}$ , issued guidelines $\{ gan gya o \}$ and
regulations $\{ tia oli n g \}$ adapted to IO, conducted IO training and exercises, and formed a fairly strong IO
capability.

# (1) Electronic warfare capabilities

The organizational structure and equipment of America’s various services include almost 600 types of EW systems. These
have formed a 3-dimensional [3-D] momentum disposition {liti bushi} of ground EW systems, shipborne and airborne EW
systems {jianzai he jizai dianzizhan xitong}, and EW aircraft (including EW unmanned aerial vehicles [UAVs] {dianzizhan
wurenji} and EW helicopters), and an EW capability which fuses electronic attack, electronic protection, and EW support
[ESM] into an organic whole $\{ yit i \}$ . [end of page 410]

# 1. Army EW capabilities

The US Army’s organizational structure and equipment include 10-some models and series {xinghao xilie} of HF/VHF
communication reconnaissance equipment {tongxin zhencha shebei}; airborne SIGINT interception {jizai xinhao qingbao
jiehuo}, positioning, classification {fenlei}, and transmission equipment; tactical communication jamming equipment;
airborne communication signal direction-finding, interception, and jamming equipment; airborne non-communication
radiation source positioning and identification equipment; radar and navigation signal {daohang xinhao} automatic
positioning and identification equipment; helicopter airborne radar jamming equipment {zhishengji jizai leida ganrao
shebei}; and laser and radar warning and infrared [IR] jamming {jiguang he leida gaojing, hongwai ganrao} systems and
equipment {zhuangbei}. The performance of all these systems is fairly high. For example, the “Guardrail” {“护栏” “hulan”}
system has a reconnaissance range {zhencha juli} of up to 130 kilometers [km], a communication reconnaissance frequency
{tongxin zhenpin} of 2- ${ 5 0 0 } \mathrm { MHz }$ , a radar reconnaissance frequency {leida zhenpin} of $0 . 8 \mathrm
{ - } 1 2 \mathrm { GHz }$ , a positioning error {dingwei wucha} of $5 0 { \mathrm { - } } 1 0 0 { \mathrm { m } }$ at
$1 0 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , a reconnaissance capability of 20-30 targets/minute for VHF/UHF {shengaopin/ chaogaopin}
communication, and a reconnaissance capability of 2 targets/minute for HF communication. In addition, the Army ground
electronic reconnaissance system frequency has already expanded to 0.5-40 $\mathrm { GHz }$ , the radar jamming system
frequency range {pinlyu fanwei} has reached $8 – 2 0 \mathrm { GHz }$ , and jamming power has already reached $4 \mathrm
{ k W }$ ; jamming capability is dual-mode {shuangmo}, able to jam the enemy’s voice communication, data communication,
and weapons guidance radar {wuqi zhidao leida}; [and the systems] have the capability within the entire EM spectrum
range to conduct effective reconnaissance and detection $\{ zhe nce \}$ , monitoring {jianting}, recording, analysis,
and jamming of the operations zone.

# (i) Corps {jun} EW capabilities

The US Army’s corps organizational system {jun jianzhi} internally is organized with military intelligence brigades and
combat aviation brigades [among others]. Its EW missions mainly are to acquire EW intelligence, and to perform posture
analysis {taishi fenxi} and target research and discrimination {目标研判 mubiao yanpan}, to meet the intelligence
requirements of the corps and its subordinate divisions, independent brigades, and armored cavalry regiments. Its electronic jamming equipment mostly is forward deployed {kaoqian bushu},
and used for supporting the EW activity of the subordinate units.

The EW systems in the equipment of the corps’ military intelligence brigades and combat aviation brigades are mainly
used for reconnaissance and detection and jamming of enemy communication and radar, as well as [enemy] IR and optical
battlefield reconnaissance equipment, and can be installed in ground vehicles and in aircraft. They mainly include
ground and airborne communication and [end of page 411] radar reconnaissance systems. Their ground communication and
non-communication interception range $\{$ 截收范围 jieshou fanwei} is $2 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , and their air communication
and non-communication interception range can be as much as $1 0 0 \mathrm { k m }$ or more. The ground and airborne
communication and radar jamming systems have a communication jamming range {ganrao juli} of $3 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , and
an aerial jamming range of up to $1 0 0 \mathrm { k m }$ . They can unfold {zhankai} 80-90 radio intercept posts
{wuxiandian zhenting shao} and directionfinding posts $\{ cex ian gsh a o \}$ (of which 37-44 are aviation posts
{hangkong shao}), 12 radio reconnaissance and radio technique reconnaissance posts {wuxiandian jishu zhencha shao} (of
which 2 are aviation posts), and 14-18 radar and photographic reconnaissance stations {zhaoxiang zhencha zhan}. These
can conduct regular surveillance of 30-100 shortwave radio nets {duanbo wuxiandian wang}, 75-100 ultrashortwave [USW]
radio nets {chaoduanbo wuxiandian wang}, 400-512 radio relay communication channels $\{$ wuxiandian jieli tongxin
tongdao}, and 110-120 radar sets. Within 1 hour, they can determine {ceding} the coordinates {zuobiao} of 400-420
shortwave radio transceivers and 200-240 USW radio transceivers, as well as the coordinates of 25-30 radar sets. A
single sortie {chudong} of a reconnaissance aerial vehicle {zhenchaji} can detect 33-55 targets, and carry out
photographing of them. In a corps assigned to offense $\{ dan ren jin gon g \}$ , the density of its frontal technical
reconnaissance instrument equipment {zhengmian jishu zhencha qicai} can reach 10-15 stations per km. This [equipment]
can conduct surveillance of the deep targets {zongshen mubiao} of a defending enemy; of these, for targets within $1 0
\mathrm { k m }$ from the enemy’s defensive forward edge {fangyu qianyan}, it can carry out 3-5 overlapping coverage
reconnaissance {chongdie fugai zhencha} [runs].

# (ii) Division EW capabilities

The US Army’s division organizational structure {bianzhi} has military intelligence battalions and combat aviation
brigades [as published; evidently “battalions”]. Their EW missions have equal emphasis on reconnaissance and jamming
{zhencha yu ganrao bingzhong}, to support the division’s operational activities. The EW systems in the equipment of the
division-subordinate military intelligence battalions and combat aviation brigades [i.e., battalions] are used for
reconnaissance and detection and jamming of enemy communication equipment and gun position target search radar {paowei
zhencha leida}, as well as IR and optical battlefield reconnaissance equipment, and can be installed in ground vehicles
and aircraft. They mainly include ground and airborne communication reconnaissance systems, ground and airborne radar EW reconnaissance systems, and portable communication direction-finding units {bianxieshi tongxin cexiang ji}, with a
communication interception range $\{$ 截收距离 jieshou juli} of $2 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , and an aerial communication and
non-communication interception range of up to $4 0 \mathrm { k m }$ . The ground and airborne communication jamming
systems have a communication jamming range of $3 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , and an aerial jamming range of up to $4 0 \mathrm
{ k m }$ . These battalions, complemented by attached elements {peishu fendui}, can unfold 35 [end of page 412] radio
intercept posts and direction-finding posts, and conduct surveillance on 40-50 radio nets and 15 radar sets, and can
determine the coordinates of 60-80 shortwave transceivers, 350-400 USW transceivers, and 24-30 ground radar sets. They
can simultaneously suppress 30 radio nets and 10-15 radar sets, and can dispatch reconnaissance teams into a $3 0 0 {
\cdot } 4 0 0 \ \mathrm { k m }$ depth.

(iii) EW capabilities of independent brigades and armored cavalry regiments

The Army’s independent brigades and armored cavalry regiments are organizationally structured with military intelligence
companies. These companies provide the brigade (regiment) commanders with the necessary intelligence, OPSEC support, and
jamming of enemy communication and non-communication electronic equipment. The EW systems in these companies’ equipment
can be installed in ground vehicles or in aircraft. They mainly include ground communication reconnaissance systems,
with a communication interception range of $2 5 \mathrm { k m }$ , and a non-communication interception range within $2
0 \mathrm { k m }$ . The ground and airborne communication EW systems have a communication jamming range of $3 0 \mathrm
{ k m }$ and an aerial jamming range of up to 40 km.

# 2. Navy EW capabilities

US Navy EW building got started fairly early. Navy airborne EW systems currently include equipment such as an airborne
threat warning {jizai weixie gaojing} series, a tactical jamming series, a deceptive electronic jamming {qipian dianzi
ganrao} series, and various types of chaff dispensers {ganraowu toufangqi}. Shipborne EW systems can resist radar-guided
weapons {leida zhidao wuqi}, collect enemy intelligence, and disrupt the enemy radar’s normal operation. Their EW
capability not only can ensure the needs and requirements $\{ xuy a o \}$ of aircraft carrier formation naval operations
{hangmu biandui haishang zuozhan}, but also can extend onto land, to directly support Air Force and Army operations.

(i) EW capabilities of naval aviation forces {haijun hangkongbing}

Operational capability $\{ zuo zha nne ngl i \}$ of electronic reconnaissance aerial vehicles {dianzi zhenchaji}: US
naval aviation forces are equipped with EP-3E “Orion” {“liehuzuo”} electronic reconnaissance aircraft, RF-4B “Phantom”
{“guiguai”} reconnaissance aircraft, and EA-6B “Prowler” {“paihuaizhe”} EW aircraft. Of these, the EP-3E’s main EW
equipment is as follows: an instantaneous frequency measurement system {shunshi cepin xitong}, electronic support
receiver system, radar signal collection system, multi-purpose radio/wireless communication intercept and analysis
system {duoyongtu wuxiandian tongxin jieshou he fenxi xitong}, IR warning [end of page 413] system, IR pod {hongwai
diaocang}, reconnaissance direction finding system {zhencha cexiang xitong}, and clutter jamming pod {zabo ganrao
diaocang} (1-3 cm waveband). It can automatically carry out frequency measurement, rapid direction finding, and
measurement {ceding} of radar signal parameters $\{ can shu \}$ ; it can identify the radiation sources for various
types of radar signals, and determine their location, with a directionfinding accuracy {cexiang jingdu} of $\pm 1 ^ {
\circ }$ ; and it can carry out interception, measurement, and recording of radio/wireless communication signals. The
main EW equipment of the RF-4B reconnaissance aircraft is as follows: a tactical electronic reconnaissance system, radar
warning system, and IR reconnaissance system, as well as a side looking radar {ceshi leida}, terrain tracking/surveying
and mapping radar {dixing genzong/cehui leida}, and Doppler navigation equipment {duopule daohang shebei}. The main EW
equipment of the EA-6B “Prowler” is as follows: integrated receiving equipment {综合 接收设备 zonghe jieshou shebei}, threat
warning control system {weixie jingjie kongzhi xitong}, tactical jamming system, deceptive electronic jamming system
{qipianxing dianzi ganrao xitong}, continuous-wave [CW] jammer {lianxu bo ganraoji}, chaff dispenser, and high-speed
anti-radiation missiles [HARMs] {gaosu fanfushe daodan}. Its electronic reconnaissance capability is A-J frequency band
{pinduan} (roughly 0.01-2 GHz), with simultaneous identification of 15 threat targets; the clutter jamming band is $6 4
~ \mathrm { MHz } - 1 . 8 ~ \mathrm { GHz }$ (excluding $2 7 0 { - } 5 0 0 \mathrm { MHz } )$ , with a jamming power
density {ganrao $gon gly umi d u \}$ of 1kW/MHz, and capability for simultaneous dealing with multiple threat targets;
the deceptive jamming band is $0 . 2 \mathrm { - } 2 \mathrm { GHz }$ , capable of covering the entire threat spectrum;
pulse jamming power {maichong ganrao gonglyu} is greater than 1kW, with a jamming beamwidth {ganrao boshu kuandu} of $6
0 ^ { \circ }$ ; response time is 0.1 microsecond [μs]; and the communication jamming band is $1 0 0 { - } 3 0 0 \mathrm
{ MHz }$ or wider.

Operational capability of early warning aircraft: US Navy early warning aircraft mainly include the E-2C “Hawkeye early
warning aircraft” {“鹰眼预警机” “yingyan yujingji”}. This aircraft is equipped with an electronic support [ESM] system, EW
pod, and early warning radar {yujing leida}, as well as data processing equipment. Its electronic reconnaissance band is
$0 . 0 5 { \cdot } 1 . 8 \operatorname { GHz }$ , with capability over a $3 6 0 ^ { \mathrm { o } }$ scope for swiftly
detecting radar signals being transmitted within the above band, and with an interception range of up to $9 0 0 {
\mathrm { k m } }$ . This aircraft model, within a space with a radius of several hundred km and an altitude under $3
\mathrm { k m }$ , can simultaneously detect, identify, track, and surveil 250 or more various types of targets moving
at different speeds. When conducting airborne warning $\{ kon gzh ong jin gji e \}$ at $3 7 0 \mathrm { k m }$ in front
of an aircraft carrier {hangkong mujian}, via data link {shuju lian} and communication equipment, it can timely provide
the aircraft carrier battle group [CVBG] {hangmu zhandouqun $\}$ with [end of page 414] target coordinates, batches
{pici}, and routes, plus their main parameters, for the following: enemy high-altitude bombers {gaokong hongzhaji} at $1
1 1 1 \mathrm { k m }$ in the incoming direction from the carrier, low-altitude bombers at $8 3 3 \mathrm { k m }$ ,
low-altitude combat aircraft at $7 8 8 \mathrm { k m }$ , enemy ships {jianchuan} at $7 3 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , and
low-altitude cruise missiles {dikong xunhang daodan $\}$ at $6 3 9 \mathrm { k m }$ .

Operational capability of patrol aircraft: US Navy patrol aircraft mainly include the P-3C “Orion” anti-submarine patrol
and ELINT aircraft {fanqian xunluo yu dianzi qingbao feiji} and the ES-3A “Viking” {“beiou haidao”} electronic patrol
aircraft. Of these, the P-3C’s main EW equipment is as follows: an instantaneous frequency measurement system,
electronic support [ESM] system, radar warning and surveillance system {leida gaojing he jianshi xitong}, tactical
electronic reconnaissance system, forward-looking infrared [FLIR] reconnaissance {qianshi hongwei zhencha} warning and
surveillance system, pulse analyzer {maichong fenxiyi}, and surface search radar {shuimian sousuo leida}. The radar
warning and surveillance system has an operating frequency of $0 . 0 2 { \cdot } 2 \operatorname { GHz }$ ; can conduct
surveillance over a $3 6 0 ^ { \mathrm { o } }$ azimuth {fangwei} and a look-down space {fushi…kongjian} of $\pm 4 5 ^ {
\mathrm { o } }$ , with a direction-finding accuracy of better than $1 5 ^ { \mathrm { { o } } }$ ; and has a threat
database {weixie shujuku} with the parameters of more than 100 radiation sources, and capability for simultaneously
displaying the main technical parameters of 15 radiation sources on the display. The ES-3A’s main EW equipment includes
a tactical signal exploitation system {zhanshu xinhao liyong xitong}, electronic support [ESM] system, chaff dispenser,
and warning/search radar. Its reconnaissance wave band is the E-J band, $0 . 2 { \mathrm { - } } 2 \operatorname { GHz
}$ . Besides executing electronic reconnaissance missions, it also can carry out tracking of submarines.

(ii) EW capabilities of operational ships {zuozhan jianting}

The EW equipment of US Navy operational ships takes electronic reconnaissance (warning) and active jamming equipment
{zhudongshi ganrao shebei} as primary, with passive jamming instrument equipment {wuyuan ganrao qicai} as auxiliary (the
radar cross section [RCS] {leida fanshe jiemianji} of heavy ships {daxing jianting}) is roughly $1 0 0 { - } 6 0 0 0
\mathrm { m } ^ { 2 }$ , and dispensing of chaff {toufang botiao} or IR decoys $\{ hon gwa iyo uer \}$ requires a
maximum dispersal quantity {sanbuliang}). The Navy attaches importance to boosting the jam-resistance capability
{kangganrao nengli} of all types of shipborne radar {jianzai leida}.

Aircraft carriers: Conventionally powered carriers {changgui dongli hangkong mujian} all are equipped with passive
detection equipment {wuyuan tance shebei}, instantaneous frequency measurement receivers, and active and passive jamming
equipment {youyuan yu wuyuan ganrao shebei}. The passive detection coverage frequency is $4 0 \mathrm { MHz } - 0 . 2
\mathrm { GHz }$ , which not only can conduct communication reconnaissance, but also can conduct radar reconnaissance;
the instantaneous frequency measurement receivers are used for detecting and rapidly analyzing threats from anti-ship
missiles {fanjian dandao},[end of page 415] and have a signal intercept rate {xinhao jiehuolyu} of $100 \%$ within the
0.7-1.8 GHz range. Nuclear powered carriers {he dongli hangkong mujian} mainly are equipped with high-power deception
jammers and EW surveillance receiver systems. The high-power deception jammers operate within an intensive {miji} EM
environment, and can monitor and track {jiance genzong} signals from multiple types of missiles; the EW surveillance
receiver systems can automatically measure the signals’ direction of arrival, and carry out classification and
identification of the signals, and can conduct analysis of the signal parameters, plus carry out key point search
{zhongdian sousuo} for specific frequency bands.

Cruisers and battleships: These mainly are equipped with AN/SLQ-32(V)3 EW systems and MK36 passive jamming transmitter
systems {wuyuan ganrao fashe xitong}. Their EW systems are mainly used for defense against winged-type missile
{feihangshi daodan} attacks; can carry out warning and identification of, and direction determination {ceding} for
radar-guided anti-ship missiles; and have active jamming capability, enabling simultaneous jamming of 80 radar sets.
They also can be used for controlling passive jamming system transmissions. Some cruisers and battleships are equipped
with towed sonar decoy systems {tuoyeshi shengna you’er xitong}; these can detect enemy sonar signals or various
parameters of torpedoes.

Destroyers and frigates [escort vessels]: These are equipped with AN/SLQ(V)2 EW systems and MK36 passive jamming
transmitter systems. Their EW systems can carry out warning {baojing} and identification of incoming radar-guided
anti-ship missiles, and can determine their direction. They also can guide {yindao} the passive jamming systems’ launch
of chaff or IR jamming projectiles {ganraodan}.

Amphibious operational ships {liangqi zuozhanjian} and missile patrol boats {daodan xunluo ting}: These are equipped
with EW systems and passive jamming transmitter systems.

Submarines: These mainly are equipped with EW surveillance receiver systems, low-frequency [LF] acoustic echo repeaters
{dipin huisheng chongfaqi}, and HF acoustic echo repeaters. These two types of acoustic echo repeaters both are floating
type {piaofushi}; when they are irradiated by active sonar, or receive signals transmitted by underwater weaponry
{shuizhong bingqi} active or acoustic homing systems {声自寻的 系统 sheng zixundi xitong}, they can repeat the echoes, to
achieve confusing the genuine with the spurious {以假乱真 yijia luanzhen}, and luring threats toward a false target. Besides
the above EW equipment, the US Navy’s main operational ships also are universally equipped with EW equipment such as
communication jammers and communication direction-finding equipment. [end of page 416]

# (iii) EW capabilities of the Marine Corps

The USMC has an independent organizational SoS $\{ zuz h i ~ tix i \}$ ; it can both assist the other services’
operations, and also can independently carry out operational missions $\{ zuo zha nre nwu \}$ . The Marine Corps,
according to the nature of its main mission, to carry out landing operations {denglu zuozhan} and on-island operations
{daoshang zuozhan}, develops EW capabilities mutually consistent with its mission. Its main EW equipment and
capabilities are as follows: the AN/PRD-12 “Top Hunter” {“gaoji lieshou”} radio direction-finding system {wuxiandian
dingxiang xitong}, which can perform interception {jiehuo}, surveillance, and positioning of targets, with a
direction-finding error of less than $3 ^ { \mathrm { o } }$ (RMS value). The AN/TLQ-17A [“TRAFFICJAM”] communication
jamming system has a frequency coverage range of $1 . 5 { \cdot } 8 0 \mathrm { MHz }$ , CW jamming power of 550W, and pulse
jamming power of $2 . 5 \mathrm { k W }$ ; has complete remote control capability; offers search and lock-on $\{ sou suo
\ suo din g \}$ , priority lock-on {youxian suoding}, autosurveillance {zidong jianshi}, band-selectable scanning
{pinduan xuanze saomiao}, and full-band scanning {quanpinduan saomiao} operating modes; and can within 1 second, from
among 256 pre-selected frequency bands, tune and align {tiaoxie duizhun} any one target needing to be jammed. The
AN/MLQ-36 mobile EW support system {jidong dianzizhan zhiyuan xitong} is installed in amphibious lightweight armored
vehicles {liangqi qingxing zhuangjiache}, has an operating band of $2 0 – 8 0 \mathrm { MHz }$ and effective radiated
power [ERP] {youxiao fushe gonglyu} of 400W, and can discharge suppressive and deceptive jamming {yazhixing he
qipianxing ganrao}. It has automatic intercept {zidong jiehuo} and threat assessment {weixie panduan} capabilities, and
the capability for performing jamming; and within 1 second, it can from among 16 preset target channels, select one or
more having a high threat level, to conduct the jamming. It also can per a program {chengxu} conduct jamming of specific
bands and predetermined signals. In addition, [USMC] also has EW equipment such as vehicle-mounted/airborne ground
tactical communication jamming centers {chezai/jizai dimian zhanshu tongxin ganrao zhongxin} or positioning and warning
systems {dingwei jingjie xitong}, portable/airborne {shouti/jizai} HF communication jamming [systems], and
identification friend or foe [IFF] systems {diwo shibie xitong}.

# 3. EW capabilities of the Air Force

The USAF is, among all the services, the service with the strongest EW capability. Its airborne jamming equipment has a
frequency band which has already expanded to $6 4 ~ { \mathrm { MHz } } - 1 8 ~ { \mathrm { GHz } }$ , and a jamming ERP
already reaching 1MW. Its airborne electronic reconnaissance systems have the capability for detecting and intercepting
a variety of EM-radiation signals of the enemy; can provide the location, nature, activity situation, and threat level
of radiation sources; and have an intelligence reconnaissance receiver frequency {qingbao zhencha jieshouji pinlyu}
which has already expanded to $0 . 0 3 { \scriptstyle - 4 0 } \mathrm { GHz }$ . Its radar [end of page 417] warning
systems have a frequency coverage range which generally already can reach $0 . 5 { \cdot } 1 8 \mathrm { GHz }$ , a
probability of intercept {jiehuo gailyu} which can reach $100 \%$ , and the ability to vector ARMs to attack targets.
Its radar jamming systems have a jamming frequency coverage range which generally can reach $0 . 5 { - } 2 0 \mathrm {
GHz }$ , and a maximum jamming power density which can reach 1kW/MHz; one jammer can simultaneously jam tens of radar
sets. Its airborne electro-optical [E-O] reconnaissance and detection systems {jizai guangdian zhence xitong} have the
capability to operate under a variety of EM jamming conditions; and the airborne E-O weapons systems have the capability
for target acquisition $\{ mub iao \ : buh u o \}$ , tracking, identification, and measurement {celiang}, plus the
capability for attacks on targets.

# (i) Electronic reconnaissance capabilities

USAF electronic reconnaissance aircraft are divided into strategic electronic reconnaissance aircraft and tactical
electronic reconnaissance aircraft. The strategic electronic reconnaissance aircraft mainly include the RC-135, SR-71,
and TR-1A [models], while the tactical electronic reconnaissance aircraft mainly include the RF-4C model. The RC-135
reconnaissance aircraft is equipped with EW reconnaissance and jamming equipment such as a reconnaissance receiver,
ELINT system, ELINT rapid scanning receiving equipment, a pulse analysis and direction-finding unit {maichong fenxi
cexiang ji}, and a clutter jammer $\{ zab o \ gan rao j i \}$ . This aircraft model is mainly used for fulfilling
strategic reconnaissance $\{ zha nlu e \ zhe nch a \}$ missions; it collects data and radiation intelligence {fushe
qingbao} on radar characteristics {leida xingneng}, guidance systems $\{ zhi dao ~ xit ong \}$ , and communication
(including detection and analysis of RF radiation {shepin fushe} coming from power lines and transport motor vehicles
{yunshu qiche}), but does not directly penetrate $\{ tup o \}$ the enemy air zone $\{ kon gyu \}$ . The TR-1A
reconnaissance aircraft is equipped with synthetic aperture side-looking radar {hecheng kongjing ceshi leida $\}$ and a
variety of electronic reconnaissance devices. Over the operations zone, it can carry out day/night continuous
high-altitude, all-weather, longdistance {yuanjuli} reconnaissance and surveillance [R&S]; can conduct reconnaissance of
ELINT beyond $5 5 \mathrm { k m }$ in the enemy depth $\{ zon gsh e n \}$ ; and is mainly used for providing direct
support to ground and air units. This aircraft model also is used as a precision positioning attack system {jingque
dingwei gongji xitong}; it can accurately determine the location of enemy radar-controlled air defense weapons {fangkong
wuqi} and important installations, and vector attack aircraft or missiles and bombs to execute attacks against the
accurately determined locations, so as to destroy the enemy air defense weapon systems. The RF-4C reconnaissance
aircraft is equipped with a tactical electronic reconnaissance system, radar homing and warning system {雷达寻的和警戒系统 leida
xundi he jingjie xitong}, ELINT system, dual-mode jamming pod, and other equipment. Its main missions are to detect $\{
zhe nce \}$ and record the enemy’s “electronic combat sequence” {“dianzi zhandou xulie”}; [end of page 418] in real
time, to detect {tance} and provide the precise locations of important threat transmitting sources {weixie fasheyuan};
to provide short-distance and long-distance related data; to provide immediate warning, positioning, and threat type
information for attack aircraft escort {huhang}; and to swiftly make battlefield combat damage assessments {zhanchang
zhandou huishang de pingjia}. The airborne part operates in concert $\{ pei h e \}$ with a ground threat processing
center, and can provide tactical commanders at all levels with the necessary intelligence.

# (ii) Electronic jamming and anti-radar capabilities

USAF electronic jamming aircraft mainly include the EF-111A model and EC130H model. The EF-111A electronic jamming
aircraft is equipped with such EW equipment as a tactical electronic jamming system, deception jamming system, radar
warning system, chaff dispensing system, and digital computer. Its jamming frequency is $3 0 \mathrm { MHz } - 1 . 8
\mathrm { GHz } ,$ , and the output power of each jammer (total of 10 on the plane) is almost $2 \mathrm { k W }$ . This
aircraft is currently the world’s only electronic jamming aircraft which can execute three types of missions:
long-distance jamming, escort jamming {bansui ganrao}, and short-distance air support. The EC-130H aircraft is a
high-power electronic jamming aircraft; it is equipped with an electronic jamming system used for conducting jamming
against enemy equipment such as radio/wireless communication and C2 systems, as well as missiles, and has a very strong
jamming suppression [blanket] $\{ gan rao yaz h i \}$ capability. This aircraft also is equipped with a radar warning
receiver, IR reconnaissance system, and other electronic equipment. The F-4G “Wild Weasel” {“ye youshu”} aircraft is an
anti-radar attack type EW aircraft {fanleida gongjixing dianzizhan feiji} which combines radar, navigation, and display
electronic systems with attack weapons systems such as ARMs into an organic integrated whole {youji zhengti}; which can
precision position radiation sources, and use ARMs to destroy them; and which carries out “hard” kill against enemy
radar and other air defense equipment. It is equipped with a radar homing and warning {jingjie} system, radar warning
{gaojing} system, dual-mode jamming pod, chaff and flare dispensing system {botiao he shanguangdan toufang xitong}, and
other electrical equipment. This aircraft uses antiradar missiles as its main weapons, the commonly used ones including
the “Shrike” {“baisheniao”} ARM, “Standard” {“biaozhun”} ARM, and the “HARM” {“hamu”} [high-speed] ARM. During
operational employment, this type of aircraft goes ahead of friendly attack aircraft, or together with attack aircraft
[flies in] mixed formation {hunhe biandui} deep into the threat scope of the enemy air defense system, and specially
[end of page 419] suppresses and $[ / \mathrm { o r } ]$ destroys the enemy air defense radar positions {fangkong leida
zhendi}, or it indicates $\{ \boldsymbol { z } his h i \}$ the enemy radar locations for other friendly attack aircraft,
to create the conditions for the activities of the follow-up attack aircraft groupings $\{ hou xug ong jij i ~ qun \}$ .

(iii) Electronic self-defense capabilities {dianzi ziwei nengli} of operational aircraft

All USAF operational aircraft are outfitted with self-defense EW equipment {ziweixing dianzizhan zhuangbei}. At present,
the various types of EW equipment already fielded total more than 200 types, which mostly can be divided into three
basic types: airborne reconnaissance and warning equipment {jizai zhencha gaojing shebei}, active jamming equipment
{youyuan ganrao shebei}, and passive jamming equipment {wuyuan ganrao shebei}. In addition, [all aircraft] are also
equipped with other electronic equipment closely associated {miqie xiangguan} with EW, such as airborne radar,
communication, navigation, and identification systems. Along with the airborne EW equipment, these compose an organic
integrated whole, which supports {baozhang} the operational aircraft’s operations, in all weather, at high altitudes,
and over long and short distances, against the different air, ground, and sea targets.

The USAF, while placing key points on developing radar EW equipment and systems, also pays unusual attention to
developing EW equipment for communication EW and E-O EW. Its communication EW equipment includes two types — airborne
equipment and ground base installations {dimian jidi sheshi} — and can carry out barrage, spot, responsive, and
deceptive jamming {zuseshi, miaozhunshi, yingdashi, qipianshi deng ganrao}.

(2) Computer network operations capabilities

The US military has network resources superiority and advanced IT, and regards CNO as a strategic means to be given a
high degree of attention. In recent years, it has formulated complete computer network security plans {jisuanji wangluo
anquan guihua}; researched and developed {yanzhi he fazhan} means such as program presets $\{ che ngx uyu zhi \}$ , chip
weapons {xinpian wuqi}, and injection of viruses; and formed a fairly powerful CNO capability.

1. Formulation of complete network security plans {wangluo anquan jihua}

Under the guidance of DoD’s unified information systems security planning {guihua}, all US military services one after
another have formulated service information system security plans {jihua}. The Army in 2000 began implementing its
network security improvement plan. The first phase of this plan is to improve network surveillance $\{ wan glu o \ jia
nsh i \}$ , intrusion detection $\{ ruq i n \ zhe nce \}$ , and response techniques; the second phase is to open-up
develop [exploit] $\{ kai f a \}$ several specific techniques; the third phase is to establish a secure connection
network {anquan de lianjie wangluo} between the master station $\{ zon gzh a n \}$ and its external field equipment $\{
wai cha ngs heb e i \}$ ; and the fourth phase [end of page 420] is to have all users enter the network from 4 network
security portals {wangluo anquan rukou}. The Navy decided to use smart card technology $\{ zhi nen gka jis h u \}$ to
inspect {jiancha} the “identity” $\{ \ ^ { \ast } she nfe n ^ { \prime \prime } \}$ of users entering the secure
network. It is currently setting about building 9 large-scale networks (5 on the homeland $\{ ben t u \}$ and 4
overseas), and all these networks will use this smart card technology to ensure the security of the networks. The Air
Force is now developing {yanzhi} and verifying {yanzheng} a system to detect radio-frequency link intrusions {wuxiandian
pinlyu lianlu ruqin}, to be used as an intelligent software tool {zhineng ruanjian gongju} for surveillance of
non-secure and non-sensitive {feibaomi bumingan} information network addresses $\{ xin xiw ang zhi \}$ , and used as
automated equipment for surveillance of non-secure telephone and e-mail information.

2. Establishment and building $\{ zuj ian \}$ of network security institutions $\{ jig o u \}$ and units {budui}

In order to boost CNO capability, the US military, while formulating information system security plans {jihua} at all
levels, is energetically establishing and building network security institutions and units. In the Pacific Theater,
Europe, and Arizona, the Army already has established area-wide network activities centers {duquxing de wangluo xingdong
zhongxin} and computer contingency incident response teams {jisuanji yingji shijian fanying xiaozu}, in order to protect
and operate $\{ cao zon g \}$ networks in specific areas {teding diqu}. The Air Force has organizationally structured
{bianzhi} network warfare [CNO] detachments $\{ wan glu ozh anf end u i \}$ at all of the following: Ninth Air Force at
[Shaw] Air Force Base [AFB] in South Carolina, Air Force HQ {silingbu} [i.e., “Network Integration Center”] at Scott AFB
in Illinois, USAF Seventh Air Force at Osan {乌山 $\}$ Air Base in South Korea, United States Air Forces in Europe [USAFE]
at Ramstein Air Base in Germany, Pacific Air Forces [PACAF] at Hickam Air Base in Hawaii, and Eighth Air Force at Barksdale
AFB in Louisiana, as well as Twelfth Air Force at Davis-Monthan AFB in Arizona. Moreover, US Space Command [USSPACECOM]
{meiguo hangtian silingbu} in 2000 established and built a regular joint task force {zhenggui de lianhe teqiandui},
responsible for dealing with computer network attacks. The Navy, as far back as October 1995, activated the Navy
Information Operations Center at Norfolk [naval base] in Virginia.

(3) PSYOP capabilities

The US military’s PSYOP strengths come under the jurisdiction {guishu} of special operations forces {tezhong zuozhan
budui}. The Army has organized PSYOP groups {dadui} and Reserve PSYOP groups, but the Navy and Air Force only have a
small number of PSYOP units. The Army’s $4 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ PSYOP Group is the US military’s only active-duty
PSYOP unit. This unit [end of page 421] dispatched to forward-edge areas {qianyan diqu} 4 forward support detachments
{qianyan zhiyuan fendui}, 2 of which are in the Asian-Pacific area (respectively at Pacific Command [PACOM] {taipingyang
$zon gbu \}$ and at US Forces, Korea [USFK] Joint HQ {zhuhan lianhe budui silingbu}). The Air Force is equipped with a
number of EC-130E PSYOP aircraft and a number of MC-130 aircraft. The EC-130E aircraft mainly execute missions to
broadcast FM and AM radio programs, as well as TV programs, while the MC-130 aircraft are used for disseminating
leaflets. The US military mainly adopts modes such as battlefield radio broadcasting, dissemination of leaflets, media
propaganda, sending of e-mail, and direct telecom {dianxun zhida} to carry out PSYOP, including psychological attack
{gongxin} propaganda, awing [frightening] of the will {yizhi zhenshe}, influencing of emotions, and psychological
deception $\{ xin zhi qip ian \}$ , against the enemy. From the viewpoint of several recent local wars, the US military
possesses a fairly strong PSYOP capability. During the Kosovo War, less than 1 week after the air raids commenced, 6
EC-130E PSYOP aircraft of the USAF $1 9 3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ Special Operations Wing {tezhong zuozhan liandui} began
to take to the air in turns $\{ lun liu sha ngk ong \}$ , and every day transmitted 4 hours of radio and TV programs
within the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia [FRY] {nan lianmeng}, and directly applied the Serbian
language to conduct propaganda against FRY officers and men $\{ gua nbi n g \}$ . Another PSYOP unit of USAF also
successively airdropped $\{ kon gto u \}$ tens of millions of intimidating and persuasive {劝降 quanjiang} leaflets onto
12 main cities within FRY territory, and effectively eliminated the FRY military’s will to resist. During the Iraq War,
the US military’s PSYOP units employed 58 sorties {jiaci} of EC-130E aircraft, conducted 306 hours of radio broadcasts
{diantai boyin} and 304 hours of TV rebroadcasts, disseminated more than 30 million leaflets in 81 types, and conducted
fairly effective psychological attacks against the Iraqi military.

# (4) Entity destruction capabilities

Over the past few years, the US military, while developing IO “soft” attack means, has laid stress on the combination of
“soft and hard,” and energetically developed entity destruction means such as EM pulse bombs [E-bombs] {dianci maichong
zhadan}, graphite bombs {shimo zhadan}, cruise missiles, and ARMs, to boost its integrated capability {zonghe nengli} for IO.
[end of page 422]

# Section 2: Information Operations of the Taiwan Military…423

Since the 1990s, Taiwan military thought has undergone major changes. The Taiwan military holds that following on the
arrival of the Information Age, future wars will be wars which take information and IO as the lead. The Taiwan military
regards IO as an operational pattern of strategic level, and devotes a high degree of attention to the important means
for island defense $\{ hai dao fan gyu \}$ . To this end, the Taiwan military in recent years has constantly increased
the degree of force $\{ lid u \}$ in its IO strength building and training; has drawn up $\{ nid ing \}$ near-term and
long-term IO development plans {jihua}; and has regarded boosting of the IO capabilities of its Army, Navy, and Air
Force as the most important objective of building the military and preparing for war {jianjun beizhan}.

The Taiwan military’s IO theoretical research and strength building have been developing on the basis of EW theory and
strength building. Its understanding [awareness] {renshi} of IO conceptions {gainian} has gone through a process of
gradual deepening; and at present the appellation {chengwei} of Taiwan military IO also has multiple formulations, such
as “information warfare” {“资讯战” “zixunzhan”}, “electronic information operations” {“dianzi zixun zuozhan”}, and
“information operations” {“zixun zuozhan”}.25

In the current world military field, only the Taiwan military has put forth the conception of electronic information
operations. The Taiwan military holds that electronic IO is an all-new conception formed by combining electronic
operations {dianzi zuozhan} and IO {zixun zuozhan}. As for the reason why the Taiwan military has put forth this
conception, it is mainly based on the gradual fusion of electronics, information $\{ zix u n \}$ , communication, and
networks in terms of S&T and application; thus, electronic operations and IO likewise are gradually fusing into an
organic whole. In particular, on the occasions when the Taiwan S&T levels {shuiping} still show quite a gap from those
of the advanced nations of Europe and [North] America, if electronic operations are directly classified within IO, it
would be easy to confuse the common masses’ understanding of the original electronic operations. Hence, the Taiwan
military has proposed that it can, based on its developmental evolution {yange} and content, call IO as EW in the broad
sense, and call EW as IO in the narrow sense. The operational goal of both is then to paralyze the enemy’s various types
of information systems {zixun xitong} and information associated weapons [end of page 423] systems.

On the basis of the US military’s viewpoints, the Taiwan military defines IO as follows: “Information operations are
those which take advantage of opportunities {借 jie} to influence the enemy’s information and information systems and
gain information superiority $\{ zix u n \ you shi \}$ , so as to assist-support $\{ zhi yua n \}$ national military
strategic actions {guojia junshi zhanlue zuowei}, and at the same time to protect the security {anquan} of our
information and information systems.” From the Taiwan military’s definition of IO, one can see that the Taiwan military
regards IO as a strategic-level operational pattern to be given a high degree of attention, and has a full understanding
of the position and role $\{ diw eiz uoy ong \}$ of IO within war. It holds that IO has a close relationship to national
security; that its scope contains the political, economic, and psychological national information infrastructure $\{ xin
xij ich uji ans h e \}$ , as well as the strategic and tactical military information infrastructure; and that all
execution of attacks or protective activities against these infrastructures falls within the category of IO. Below, for
convenience in study of the issues, we use xinxi zuozhan (IO) for the general term Taiwan military zixun zuozhan (IO).

The Taiwan military’s classification of IO conceptions on the whole continues to use the US military’s classification.
According to operational level, it divides IO into two levels: strategic IO and tactical IO; and according to the nature
of the activities, it mainly divides it into seven types: C2 operations, intelligence operations, electronic operations,
PSYOP $\{ xin liz uoz han \}$ , economic IO, [computer] network operations (network intrusion operations {wangluo ruqin
zuozhan}), and computer hacker operations {diannao heike zuozhan} (computer control warfare {diannao kongzhizhan}).

# I. Basic viewpoints and principles of Taiwan information operations…424

The Taiwan military draws inspiration from the Persian Gulf War and Kosovo War. After having analyzed in manner having a
directed [focused] quality {you zhenduixing di} the current state {xianzhuang} and trends of the mainland’s IW, it
clearly pointed out that it will at the beginning of the $2 1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }$ century activate an “intimidating
EW superiority combat power” {“xiazuxing dianzizhan youshi zhanli”} having both attack and defense {gongshou zhanbei}
[capability], to contend for information dominance {zhixinxiquan}. In recent years, the Taiwan military has increased
the degree of force in its IO research, and has formed a relatively complete [set of] IO viewpoints.

(1) Basic viewpoints

1. Implementing the IO guidance of the “strategic defensive {zhanlue shoushi} and tactical offensive {zhanshu gongshi}”

The Taiwan military holds that the mainland in recent years has increased its studies on IO theory, and [end of page
424] has renewed its IW equipment {xinxizhan zhuangbei}, and already possesses a fairly strong IO capability. Hence, in
terms of IO tactics $\{ cel u e \}$ , it should also consider political needs and requirements, should not excessively
reveal its capabilities $\{ fen gma n g \}$ , and should abide by the overall operational requirements $\{ zon gti zuo
zha nya oqi u \}$ , so as to benefit great power support $\{ dag u o \ zhi chi \}$ . However, in terms of specific IW
tactics, it should exploit EW “activities which discover {chajue} the enemy’s intent, and counter-preempt {fanzhi} the
enemy,” and have EW penetrate through the entire operational process. Hence, it requires that its Air Force should
flexibly apply EW aircraft, early warning aircraft, and various other items of electronic equipment; and, based on the
integrated-whole operational plan, combined with specific tactical activities, adopt all feasible means to timely
conduct electronic suppression against the adversary, to hope for paralyzing or weakening the enemy early warning and
command systems, and support {baozhang} the execution of operational missions. In wartime, the three services {sanjun}
should, while doing their utmost to conduct full-dimensional, multilevel, large-depth, uninterrupted {quanfangwei,
duocengci, dazongshen, bujianduan} information collection against the adversary, also [realize] integrated application
$\{ zon ghe yun yon g \}$ of multiple means to continuously carry out electronic suppression and network attacks against
the mainland, so as to contend for EM superiority {dianci youshi}.

2. Laying stress on “long-range monitoring {yuancheng jiankong} and early-stage early warning,” and doing everything
possible to seize the [advantage of the] operational first opportunity {zuozhan xianji}

The Taiwan military holds that Taiwan Island’s special geographic location has determined that it must, via “long-range
monitoring and early-stage early warning,” timely acquire the mainland’s seacoast arms movements {yanhai junbei
dongxiang}, and that only in this manner can it seize the operational first opportunity. On these grounds, the Taiwan
military requires that its Air Force should, based on the “Chi’ang Wang” {“强 网”} system, build a multilevel,
full-dimensional integrated intelligence reporting SoS {zonghe qingbao baozhi tixi}; and apply multiple reconnaissance
means, such as radar, technical reconnaissance {jizhen}, airborne early warning [AEW] {kongzhong yujing},
photoreconnaissance {zhenzhao}, and reconnaissance patrols $\{ zhe nxu n \}$ , to [conduct] 24- hour, all-weather,
full-dimensional, 3-D reconnaissance {liti zhencha}, to acquire air intelligence $\{ kon gzh ong qin gba o \}$ on the
mainland’s deep areas. On the ground, its 30- some sets of surface-to-air warning and guidance radar {duikong jingjie,
yindao leida} should form a circular disposition {huanxing bushu} with Taiwan Island as its center and the western part
as the key point, and constitute a multilevel, fairly rigorous {yanmi} surface-to-air warning net. It requires that the
E-2T AEW aircraft $\{ kon gzh ong yuj ing j i \}$ should fly over Taiwan’s central mountain range or Taiwan’s eastern
air zones, and when necessary, maneuver forward {jidong qianchu} to the [Taiwan] Strait area $\{ hai xia diq u \}$ .
Their key points are to reinforce {jiaqiang} the surveillance search {jianshi sousuo} for low-altitude targets, and at
the right time take over to make up for {jieti mibu} the gaps $\{ kon gxi \}$ in ground radar coverage. In addition, it
also emphasizes the use of technical reconnaissance means to acquire deep-inside-story {neimuxing qiang} operational
intelligence on the mainland’s southeast seacoast first-line unit readiness {yixian budui zhanbei} situation, operational instructions $\{ zuo zha nzh ili n g \}$ , and flight forecasts {feixing yubao}. It
applies [end of page 425] RF-5E and RF-16 reconnaissance aircraft, as well as various models of combat aircraft, to
conduct aviation reconnaissance point blank {抵近 dijin} along the mainland seacoast, and timely grasp the mainland’s real
strength and organized defenses {shili bufang}, as well as important target data {mubiao ziliao}. Via the above various
long-range monitoring means, it puts key points on grasping the mainland seacoast’s air flight dynamic situation
{kongzhong feixing dongtai}, on surveillance of the mainland’s first-line medium- and high-altitude targets {zhong,
gaokong mubiao} north to the Zhoushan Archipelago [at the mouth of Hangzhou Bay] and south to the southern Penghu
Islands [Pescadores] {nan peng liedao $\}$ , and on grasping all types of aerial targets active in the southeast
seacoast areas, in order to provide early-stage early warning for timely implementation of counter-suppression
operations {fanzhi zuozhan}.

3. Emphasizing “head attacks, with precedence to political ones {zhengzhi youxian, yuantou gongji}”

The Taiwan military stresses that IO should implement the principle of “head attacks, with precedence to political ones”
in counter-suppression operations. This means that the selection of IO targets should be mutually complementary {相辅相成
xiangfu xiangcheng} with counter-suppression operations, and that preliminary information suppression {xianqi xinxi
yazhi} not only must aim at the adversary’s military “point targets” {“dianzhuang mubiao”}, but also must lay stress on
damaging or disrupting {huishang, pohuai} “planar targets” {“mianzhuang mubiao”} which have an overall situation $\{ qua
nju \}$ influence on the adversary’s campaign activities {zhanyi xingdong} and which exert a shocking effect
{zhenhanxing xiaoying}, and execute “head attacks.” On these grounds, the Taiwan military emphasizes, on one hand, that
it should adopt the mode of a mutual combination of “soft kill” and “hard destruction” to execute precision strikes
{jingque daji} on political and economic targets in political and economic center cities such as Xiamen, Shanghai, and
Hong Kong, and thus achieve [the goals of] creating an adverse political influence, and shaking the adversary’s
strategic resolve {zhanlue juexin} to attack Taiwan. On the other hand, it should employ a mutual combination of “soft
kill” and “hard destruction” to damage command information systems and reconnaissance and intelligence installations,
and contain $\{ ezh i \}$ the bringing into play of the adversary’s high-tech force-strengths and combat power {bingli
zhanli}. The Taiwan military holds that once the adversary’s C3I system goes out of order $\{ shi lin g \}$ , his
advanced weapons and equipment then will also be difficult to bring into use and to use well. To this end, the Taiwan
military attaches even more importance to adopting “soft kill” and “hard destruction” means to disrupt the adversary’s
southeast seacoast area command information and reconnaissance and intelligence systems, and during exercises with
troops $\{ shi bin gya nxi \}$ it lays stress on carrying out simulated attacks {moni gongji} against the correlated
targets.

4. Mutually combining “soft kill” and “hard destruction,” to seize and maintain local information dominance {jubu
zhixinxiquan}

The Taiwan military holds that when conducting information suppression, it should take a “combination of soft and hard
attacks, [end of page 426] to ensure information and electronic superiority {资电优势 zidian youshi}” as the principle, to
seize and control local EM dominance {jubu zhidianciquan}. In wartime, the Taiwan military, while ensuring the
capability for conducting full-dimensional, multilevel, largedepth, uninterrupted information acquisition against the
mainland, also should adopt the dual tactics $\{ lia ngs hou \}$ of “soft kill” and “hard destruction” to conduct
information suppression against the mainland, in hopes of contending for information superiority. Its specific
considerations are as follows: when the mainland carries out a sea-air blockade {haikong fengsuo} and landing
preparations {denglu zhunbei}, on one hand it will put into action $\{ chu don g \}$ E-2T and C-130HE EW aircraft to
conduct electronic suppression against the mainland southeast seacoast C3I systems; and on the other hand, it will
timely acquire the technical parameters of the EM waves and EM spectrum {dianci pinpu} radiated by the adversary’s C3I
systems, and at the right time vector various types of ARMs to execute hard destruction of the targets, in hopes of
paralyzing the mainland’s reconnaissance and early warning and command communication systems. After the NATO air raids
against the FRY, the Taiwan military made it clear that IO with electronic offense {dianzi jingong} and electronic
suppression {dianzi yazhi} as its main content was being added to the list of troop drill and training {yanxun shibing}
subjects for the next several years’ “Han Kuang” {“汉光”} series of exercises.

5. Combining professional and nonprofessional strengths, to conduct information attack and defense operations {xinxi
gongfang zuozhan}

The Taiwan military stresses that the professional IW units should take implementing of information offensive activities
{xinxi jingong zuozhan} as primary, while the nonprofessional IW units will take implementing of information defense as
the root $\{ gen ben \}$ . On these grounds, its Air Force took the lead in establishing and building “EW air groups”
{“dianzizhan dadui”}, equipped with E-2T model AEW aircraft and C130HE model EW aircraft; its Army also is successively
augmenting {kuobian} the EW companies of its large formations {juntuan} into EW battalions; and its Navy already has
perfected its shipborne IW equipment. In addition, the Taiwan “Ministry of Defense” has continued to establish
“information attack teams” {“zixun gongji xiaozu”} and “IW crisis handling centers” {“zixunzhan weiji chuli zhongxin”},
respectively arranged fielding {liezhuang} of new IW equipment for newly planned and organized {筹组 chouzu}
professional-quality IO units, and already put them through US military cultivation and training $\{ pei xun \}$ , so
that it now possesses a certain IO capability. The network warfare techniques $\{ wan glu ozh anj ish u \}$ it has
exploited $\{ kai f a \}$ already have the capability for infiltrating and disrupting large-scale Army and civilian
computer network systems. The nonprofessional IW units, then, are composed of radar observation and communication units
{leida guantong budui} and communication and information units {tongxin zixun budui} of the Army, Navy, and Air Force;
they mainly assume radar and communication anti-jamming operational missions and computer network security protection
missions, so as to support {baozhang} the ability of friendly systems to normally operate within EW and network warfare
confrontation {dianzizhan, wangluozhan duikang}. [end of page 427]

In order to boost the operational capability of its IW units, the Taiwan military has already formulated training
guidelines for IO. In recent years, during many exercises and training [programs], the Taiwan military has gradually
increased the content of IW, so as to boost the units’ understanding of IW, and to test {jianyan} its real-combat
application effects {shizhan yingying xiaoguo}. During the “Han Kuang” tri-service joint operations exercises {sanjun
lianhe zuozhan yanxi} which the Taiwan military holds, it for the first time has added in computer virus, logic bomb,
and other network attack content.

(2) Basic principles

Since the 1980s, the Taiwan military, while actively seeking to purchase {xungou} US military command information system
technology, and concentrating efforts on building complete, stable, high-efficiency information systems, has regarded IO
as a key point in armed forces building {jianjun zhongdian}, has successively established tri-service professional IW
units, and has continued to issue new versions of Republic of China [ROC] Armed Forces Intelligence Guidelines {guojun
qingbao gangyao}, ROC Armed Forces Communication and Electronics Guidelines {guojun tongxin dianzi gangyao}, and ROC
Armed Forces Electronic Warfare Guidelines {guojun dianzizhan gangyao}.26 The Taiwan military’s IO guidance will abide
by the following principles.

1. Unified command {tongyi zhihui} and integrated-whole adjusting-coordination {zhengti xietiao}

The Taiwan military, having carried out all-around deliberation and evaluation appraisal {kaoliang pinggu} of its IO
capability, holds that its general operational units’ IO capability is fairly weak, and usually is limited to
self-protection only. Its professional IW units have an integrated {wanzheng} IO capability, but are limited in numbers.
The two must be closely combined in order to produce an effective lethal might {shashang weili}. Hence, within future
anti-landing operations {fandenglu zuozhan}, in terms of IO guidance, it should abide by the principle of unified
guidance and integrated-whole adjusting-coordination. That is, all unitary, discrete {danyide, lisande} information
weapons and information systems should be placed under the command and control of unified, large-scale systems, to carry
out integrated-quality IW activities {zonghexing de xinxi duikang xingdong}. On these grounds, on one hand it emphasizes
that commanders {zhihuiguan} should, under unified planning, combine the application of techniques and tactics, to
[implement] unified command of the various types of information strengths. On the other hand, the professional IW units
and nonprofessional units should be closely coordinated $\{ miq i e \ xie ton g \}$ , so as to bring into play the
united combat power {tonghe zhanli} of all types of information systems within new types of military confrontation. Its
specific requirements are as follows: “the Heng Shan combat situation information management system {衡山战情资讯管理系统 hengshan
zhanqing zixun guanli xitong}” should, based on the general operational courses of action [COAs] {zongti zuozhan
fang’an}, employ multiple communication networks [end of page 428] to implement C2 over all services (arms) $\{ gej u n
( bin g ) zho n g \}$ , the $1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }$ through ${ 5 ^ { \mathrm { t h } } }$ Theaters $\{ zha nqu \}$ ,
and the Kinmen [Quemoy] and Matsu Defending Forces {fangwei bu}, and to unify their IW activities. The Air Force’s
“Ch’iang Wang” system, the Army’s “Lu Tzu” {“陆资”} system, and the Navy’s “Ta Ch’eng” {“大成”} system, as well as the Coast
Guard’s {海 巡部 haixun bu} “Hai Shen” {“海神”} system, should —under unified command by the “Heng Shan combat situation
information management system” — fully bring into play the roles of their respective systems; and, strictly according to
the pre-combat drafted {zhanqian nizhi} coordinated activities plan {xietong xingdong jihua}, ensure accurately
implementing integrated {yitihua} IW activities in respect to the specified {guiding} times, places, content, and
methods.

2. Having both offensive and defensive {gongshou jianbei} [capability], and using attack to promote defense {yigong
cufang}

The Taiwan military holds that IO should strictly execute the main idea {要旨 yaozhi} of joint operations, and [realize]
integrated application of multiple information means to conduct IO activities having both offensive and defensive
[capability]. On these grounds, it stresses integrated application of intelligence warfare {qingbaozhan}, EW, and CNO,
to conduct triadic {sanwei yiti} IO activities having both offensive and defensive [capability]. This requires that
commanders at all levels should combine the application of information counter-suppression {xinxi fanzhi} (i.e.,
information attack) and information counter-counter-suppression {xinxi fanfanzhi} (i.e., information defense); and,
while protecting friendly information systems, prevent the normal bringing into play of the adversary’s information
system functions, to ensure effectively seizing information dominance. The specific requirements for this are as
follows: commanders should fully bring into play the professional IW units’ operational capability; [realize] integrated
application of multiple information counter-suppression means by the professional IW units; and, via a mutual
combination of “soft kill” and “hard destruction,” flexibly conduct stable, high-efficiency IO activities. The
nonprofessional units’ information activities should take information counter-counter-suppression as primary, and take
ensuring the normal operation {yunzhuan} of friendly information systems as the objective. [The Taiwan military]
stresses that all levels of commanders, when formulating specific IO activities COAs {xingdong fang’an}, should unify
the command and control [C2] {zhihui yu guanzhi} of the subordinate professional IW units {danwei} and information
systems, and carefully plan {cehua} this. When carrying out IO activities, they should select favorable time opportunities {时机 shiji} and effective means to [achieve] unified
assignment of missions $\{ ton gyi fuy ure nwu \}$ , and bring into play the optimal effectiveness of all types of
weapons and information systems.

3. Seizing opportunities for combat $\{ zha nji \}$ , and rapid response

The Taiwan military stresses that the effects of information counter-suppression are dependent on the seizure of
counter-suppression time opportunities and [end of page 429] on the capability for rapid response. Overly early
implementation will give the enemy the opportunity for effective protection. In particular, since information
countersuppression and intelligence collection are mutually containing {huyou qianzhi}, longterm implementation of
information counter-suppression will increase the difficulty of intelligence collection. Hence, in order to both benefit
intelligence collection and also be able to boost the effects of counter-suppression, commanders at all levels must
select the optimal counter-suppression time opportunities. Usually these are as follows: when the enemy command
communication is frequent, presaging that major attack activities are about to be launched, they should strengthen
intelligence collection, so as to grasp the enemy’s intention and activities; when the enemy issues attack orders and
moves units {diaodong budui}, they should implement information counter-suppression, to corrupt {raoluan} the enemy
command; and when the enemy weapons systems constitute direct threats to the friendly side, or when the friendly side
adopts attack activities, they should implement eruptive {tufaxing} electronic counter-suppression {dianzi fanzhi} so
that the enemy is taken by surprise {措手不及 cuoshou buji}, and loses an opportunity for combat.

4. Fully preparing, and gaining victory by stratagem {以谋制胜 yimou zhisheng}

The Taiwan military emphasizes that the key to the success or failure of information counter-suppression operations lies
in the degree of preparations before combat. The response time of IO under modern conditions is extremely brief, so in
peacetime one must do a good job of full preparations. This requires that IO units must accomplish equal emphasis on
peacetime and wartime, and often add drills $\{ yan lia n \}$ , to ensure that in wartime they will be able to swiftly
mount a response. In order to obtain preemptive $\{ xia nzh i \}$ and surprise attack $\{ qix i \}$ effects, they should
focus on the adversary’s weak points, and excel at using electronic stratagems $\{ dia nzi mou lue \}$ , leading to
mistakes in the adversary’s assessments; select appropriate tactics to cause the adversary to exhibit even more
loopholes $\{ lou don g \}$ ; and at the right time [execute] harassing attacks behind enemy lines $\{ xir a o ~ dih o u
\}$ , forcing the enemy force-strengths to decentralize {bingli fensan}, and fall into passivity $\{ bei don g \}$ .

# II. Information operations strengths of the Taiwan military…430

The Taiwan military’s IO-related strengths mainly include EW strengths and network warfare strengths, as well as PSYOP
strengths.

(1) Electronic warfare strengths

The Taiwan military’s EW strengths mainly are composed of professional-quality and nonprofessional-quality EW units of
the three services, Army, Navy, and Air Force. The professional-quality EW units are the main force-strengths for
implementing EW, and usually are employed per the principle of concentrated organizational grouping {jizhong bianzu} and
unified application. They are mainly [end of page 430] responsible for EW attack missions such as electronic
reconnaissance and detection {dianzi zhence}, electronic jamming, and electronic deception. As for the
nonprofessional-quality EW units, their main mission is to conduct electronic counter-counter-suppression using existing
electronic equipment, so as to protect the normal employment of friendly electronic equipment and systems.

# 1. Army EW strengths

The Taiwan Army General HQ’s {zongbu} directly subordinate $7 2 ^ { \mathrm { n d } }$ Communication Grouping {tongxin
qun} is organized with 1 EW battalion; this battalion in peacetime has command over 1 EW company and 1 EW experimental
company {dianzihan shiyan lian}, but in wartime is augmented by 3 companies. As the Army’s only professional EW unit, it
is directly managed and controlled by Army General HQ (Communication and Electronic Information Office {tongxin dianzi
zixun shu}), and in wartime it respectively carries out electronic operations {dianzi zuozhan} missions for the various
attached large formations (defending forces {fangwei bu}). Among these, the $6 ^ { \mathrm { t h } } , 8 ^ { \mathrm { t
h } }$ , and $1 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ Large Formations each have 1 attached EW platoon.

# 2. Navy EW strengths

The Taiwan Navy is organized with 1 electronic operations group {dianzi zuozhan $dui \}$ , which is the Taiwan Navy’s
only professional EW unit. It is mainly equipped with 2 BJ-3 radar jammers {leida ganraoji}, which can conduct jamming
against C-X-band $[ 4 . 0 \mathrm { - } 1 2 . 5 \mathrm { GHz } ]$ radar equipment, and have a maximum operating
distance {zuida zuoyong juli} of 6-9 nautical miles $\{ hai l i \}$ ; and has more than 2000 angular-type and
circular-type reflectors {jiaoxing, yuanxing fansheqi}, which can reflect EM-wave signals and create false targets, to
achieve the goal of imitation {伪冒 weimao}. The electronic operations group in peacetime participates in unit exercises
and training $\{ yan xun \}$ , assists units at all levels in boosting their EW capability, assists in completing the
setup $\{ she din g \}$ and updating $\{ gen gxi n \}$ of the ship automated EW system database {jianting zidonghua
dianzizhan xitong ziliaoku}, and verifies {yanzheng} the EW response capability of Navy units. In wartime, based on the
operational units’ missions and needs, it adopts the mission organizational grouping mode {renwu bianzu fangshi} for the
attached units to execute specific EW missions; or, based on operational-situation {zhankuang} needs and requirements,
it will maneuver fishing vessels {jidong yuchuan} mounting circular-type and angular-type reflectors, to conduct
electronic deception and [electronic] diversion/demonstration {dianzi qipian he yangdong}. In addition, Navy destroyers,
escort gunships {huhang paojian $\}$ , and missile speedboats [fast attack craft] {daodan kuaiting} are all outfitted
with EW equipment {dianzi duikang zhuangbei} for electronic reconnaissance and detection, mechanical-style electronic
attack {jixieshi dianzi gongji}, and radar protection. The Naval Aviation Command’s {海军航指部 haijun hang zhibu}
subordinate S-70C antisubmarine helicopters {fanqian zhishengji} also are equipped with ALR-606 electronic
reconnaissance and detection systems. All of these have a certain EW capability. [end of page 431]

# 3. Air Force EW strengths

The Taiwan Air Force’s EW strengths mainly are organizationally structured {bianzhi} within the Air Force’s $2 0 ^ {
\mathrm { t h } }$ EW Early Warning Air Group {yujing dadui}, under whose command are an early warning aircraft
squadron, EW aircraft squadron, and communication counter-suppression detachment {tongxin fanzhi fendui}. These mainly
are equipped with 4 E-2T and 2 E2-K AEW aircraft and 1 C-130HE electronic jamming aircraft, as well as with “Scorpio”
{“tianxiexing”} ground-to-air communication jamming vehicles {dikong tongxin ganrao che}. Of these, the C-130HE
electronic jamming aircraft’s main missions are to conduct electronic attack and countersuppression of reconnaissance
and detection by the adversary’s combat management system [CMS] {战管系统 zhan guan xitong} against friendly operational
aircraft, so as to shorten the adversary’s air defense early warning time, so that he cannot conduct effective
interception $\{ lan jie \}$ of friendly main battle force-strengths, and to ensure the superiority of air defense
operations. The communication counter-suppression detachment is equipped with 1 “Scorpio” ground-to-air communication
jamming system, and mainly undertakes jamming missions against the adversary’s ground-to-air communication. In addition,
the Air Force’s various models of main battle aircraft all are equipped with radar early warning and externally hung
[pylon-type] and expendable electronic jamming equipment {waigua, touzhishi dianzi ganrao shebei}, which can provide
directional and priority {fangxiang ji youxian cixu} early warning of the adversary’s fire control radar {huokong
leida}, and put into effect self-defensive electronic protection {ziweixing dianzi fanghu} via transmission of jamming
waves or launch of expendable chaff or flame projectiles {huoyan dan}.

# (2) Network warfare (CNO) strengths

Starting in 1998, the Taiwan military set about planning {guihua} establishment of network warfare units. After
operations-research-based planning {chouhua} and preparations lasting up to 3 years, in January 2001 it formally
established a “Communication and Information Command” {“tongxin zixun zhihuibu”}, to primarily undertake network warfare
missions; and it planned {guihua} in Army, Navy, and Air Force units to further establish several professional network
warfare detachments.

The Taiwan military’s Communication and Information Command, besides undertaking tri-service communication duty
assisting support and safeguarding support {tongxin qinwu zhiyuan yu baozhang} missions, also is responsible for
executing network monitoring {wangluo jiankong}, defense {fangwei}, and counter-suppression missions. As a professional
network warfare unit, this command takes boosting of CNO {wangluozhan zuozhan} capability as the key point, and lists
the safeguarding $\{ wei h u \}$ of network security and the seizure of network warfare superiority as the main
objectives to be pursued and developed. First of all, it exploits the superiority of the force-strengths deployed $\{
buy o u \}$ at various spots on Taiwan, the Penghus [Pescadores], Kinmen [Quemoy], and Matsu {台, 澎, 金, 马 tai, peng, jin,
ma}; prepares in various areas to establish organizationally grouped units with communication and information {通资
tongzi} network security missions; and is responsible for [end of page 432] security and reconnaissance and detection
{anquan zhence} work for the armed forces’ internal associated information networks, to ensure the normal operation
{yunxing} of the Taiwan military’s network systems.

The Taiwan military’s professional network warfare detachments include the “Information Warfare Laboratory” {“zixunzhan
shiyanshi”} set up under its “Ministry of Defense;” the “network attack teams” under the “IW Crisis Handling Centers;”
and the various services’ “critical emergency teams” {“jinji yingbian xiaozu” $\mathbf { \omega } ^ { \prime \prime }
\}$ , anti-virus combat situation centers {fangbingdu zhanqing zhongxin}, and anti-virus monitoring stations {防 病毒监测站
fangbingdu jiancezhan}. Of these, the “IW Laboratory” is responsible for research and planning $\{ gui hua \}$ for the
advanced technology needed by the Taiwan military’s network warfare; for designing, collecting, and storing $\{ chu bei
\}$ all types of computer virus programs {bingdu chengxu}; for maintaining $\{ wei h u \}$ the “computer virus sample
database” {“diannao bingdu yangpin ziliaoku”}; for designing and exploiting {kaifa} effective network warfare weapons;
and for making preparations for wartime implementation of network attack and network system security protection. The
network attack teams are mainly responsible for conducting monitoring {jiankong} of, and for finding loopholes and weak
links in the mainland’s military/civilian-use computer networks and web sites $\{ wan gzh a n \}$ , as well as in
computer-controlled communication systems and wireless paging systems $\{ wux ian xun hux ito n g \}$ , and in wartime
conducting network virus attacks, to disrupt and paralyze important information systems. The “critical emergency teams”
are responsible for monitoring and rapid response handling of all critical incidents, including reconnaissance and
detection and counter-suppression of the adversary’s network warfare attacks, and for strengthening the rapid repair
capability for damaged systems $\{ sho uch uan gxi ton g \}$ . In addition, the Taiwan military also has established
network warfare professional detachments in Army, Navy, and Air Force units. To give several examples, in the large
formation and defending forces’ communication battalions, it has further set up information platoons; the communication
companies of the joint forces brigades $\{ lia nbi ngl u \}$ have additionally organized information squads $\{ zix u n
\ ban \}$ ; and all battalion communication platoons have additionally organized IO teams $\{ zix u n \ zuo yez u \}$ .
These are especially responsible for network management and erection, plus hardware maintenance {yingjian weixiu}, so as
to form network warfare superiority.

(3) PSYOP strengths

The Taiwan military’s PSYOP units mainly include political operations general elements {zhengzhi zuozhan zongdui} and
Army PSYOP detachments {xinzhan fendui}. Of these, the political operations general elements are administratively
subordinate to the General Political Operations Bureau {zong zhengzhi zuozhan ju}. They are the Taiwan military’s
professional units for executing PSYOP, literary and artistic propaganda $\{ wen yix uan chu a n \}$ , battleground
agitation {zhandi gudong}, and government decree propaganda {zhengling xuanchuan $\}$ ; and under their command are 3
groups {dadui} and 1 squadron {zhongdui}, viz.: a radio broadcast $\{ boy i n \}$ group, a PSYOP {xinzhan} group, an
artistic propaganda group, and a female youth {nyu qingnian} squadron. Of these, the radio broadcast group sets up “Han
Sheng” $\{ \stackrel { 6 6 } { \langle \mathcal { U } \mathcal { F } ^ { \sharp } } ^ { \sharp } \rangle \}$ broadcast
transceivers {guangbo diantai}, and in peacetime [end of page 433] is mainly responsible for conducting cultural
propaganda for the Taiwan interior and for conducting PSYOP broadcasts against the mainland; and in wartime it is under
orders {fengming} to undertake broadcasting operational missions. The PSYOP group is mainly responsible for missions
such as network PSYOP {wangluo xinli zuozhan}, counter-PSYOP {fanxinlizhan}, air floats [i.e., giant balloons] {空漂
kongpiao}, and sea floats {海漂 haipiao}, and at the same time it is also responsible for assisting support to all
operational units in implementing tactical PSYOP missions. The Taiwan Army’s PSYOP detachments mainly include 1 PSYOP
[company-size] detachment {zhongdui} and 1 PSYOP service [reorganization and outfitting] center {整备中心 zhengbei zhongxin}
set up under the Army General HQ Political Department. The PSYOP [company-size] detachment in peacetime is only
organized into 1 PSYOP contingent {fenqiandui} (tactical PSYOP detachment {fendui}), but in wartime, depending on the
situation, it is augmented by a certain number of contingents, and mainly carries out tactical PSYOP missions. Under the
PSYOP service center are set up a planning and guidance team {jihua zhidao zu}, an information and PSYOP team $\{ zix u
n ~ xin zha n ~ z u \}$ , and a logistics assisting support team $\{ hou qin zhi yua nzu \}$ . In addition, the Kinmen
[Quemoy] Defending Force also organizes 1 PSYOP work group $\{ xin zha ngo ngz u o \ z u \}$ . In order to boost its
PSYOP capability, the Taiwan military also has built political operations schools $\{ xue xia o \}$ , used for
cultivating (training) {peiyang} PSYOP professional talent.

# III. Main activities of the Taiwan military’s IO…434

The Taiwan military stresses that within information and electronic operations $\{$ 资电作战 zidian zuozhan}, it should —
based on the principle of a “combination of soft and hard attacks $\{ rua nyi ngg ong j i \}$ , to ensure information
and electronic superiority, and while conducting full-dimensional, multilevel, large-depth, uninterrupted reconnaissance
and early warning — also achieve integrated application of tri-service advanced information and electronic operations
weapons and equipment. Also via the dual tactics of “soft strike” and “hard destruction,” it should suppress,
harass-attack $\left\{ xir a o \right\}$ , and disrupt the adversary information systems, and strive in the first strike
to paralyze the adversary’s C2 and intelligence information exchange {qingzi jiaohuan $\}$ capability, and weaken his
tangible and intangible combat power.

(1) Electronic warfare

The Taiwan military holds that EW is an important counter-suppression means. It stresses that it should achieve
integrated application of a variety of EW means, and place the key points on jamming and suppressing targets such as the
adversary’s search and tracking radar {sousuo yu genzong leida}, C2, communication, and weapons guidance systems, and
information centers; degrading the effectiveness of the adversary’s use of the EM spectrum; and thus seizing overall
information and electronic superiority {quanpan de zidian youshi}. The Taiwan military’s EW activities mainly include
electronic offense and electronic protection.

Electronic offense mainly consists of stand-forward {前导式 qiandaoshi} electronic attack {dianzi gongji}, standoff {旁立式
panglishi} (long-range assisting support) electronic attack, escort {bansuishi} electronic attack, and self-defense $\{
ziw eis h i \}$ electronic attack. [end of page 434] The Taiwan military’s attack search radar {gongji sousuo leida}
generally uses standoff electronic attack, and applies high-power jamming equipment, outside the effective range (of
fire) {shecheng} of the adversary’s firearms $\{ huo q i \}$ , to carry out jamming and suppression of radar equipment.
Its attack tracking radar $\{ gon gji gen zon gsh ile ida \}$ generally uses stand-forward electronic attack, and
dispositions $\left\{ bus h u \right\}$ jamming units, unmanned aerial remotely-piloted vehicles [RPVs] {wuren kongzhong
yaokong zaiju}, or prepositioned-route unmanned aerial vehicles [UAVs] {yuzhi hanglu de wuren zaiju} between the
adversary’s weapons systems and friendly operational units, to jam and suppress enemy radar equipment — or, it uses
escort jamming {bansuishi ganrao}, and applies strengths or equipment to execute the electronic attack, and accompany
the operational units’ activities, to jam and suppress the adversary’s radar equipment. When [conducting] operations
within the adversary’s weapons range, it mainly uses escort jamming as primary.

The Taiwan military divides electronic protection into two large types: counterelectronic reconnaissance and detection
{fandianzi zhence} and counter-electronic attack {fandianzi gongji}. The basic tactics $\{ zha nsh u \}$ for its
electronic protection include the following: it applies local or all-around EM-wave emission control {fashe guanzhi},
and strengthens the intelligence transmission and security techniques {qingbao chuanshu yu baomi jishu}, to protect
friendly emitted EM waves from the adversary’s reconnaissance and detection, exploitation, and attack; and it adopts a
variety of techniques and measures to strengthen the electronic defense capability and readiness {zhanbei} measures for
friendly C2 systems and weapons and equipment, to increase the adversary’s degree of difficulty in electronic attack,
and to ensure that the friendly side can effectively employ the EM spectrum and bring into play the effectiveness of
informationized equipment.

# (2) Network warfare

This includes network intrusion and guarding against intrusion {fangzhi ruqin}. The Taiwan military requires that its
network warfare strengths should fully apply network attack equipment to execute full-dimensional network attacks
against the adversary’s various types of information, information flow, information systems and equipment, and information
infrastructure, so as to paralyze the adversary’s command systems and degrade his operational capability. Having
conducted research over many years, the Taiwan military has already realized certain achievements in the research
respects of network attack means, such as computer viruses and computer [EM] pulse bombs {diannao maichong zhadan}. Its
main fighting methods $\{ zha nfa \}$ include the following several types: first is concealed intrusion {yinbi ruqin}.
This is the use of reconnaissance modes such as network scanning $\{ wan glu o \ sao mia o \}$ to seek {xunzhao}
back-door loopholes {anmen loudong} within the adversary’s computer networks, and in concealed, hacking form {feifa de
xingshi} enter the adversary’s computer and network systems. The second is direct intrusion {zhengmian ruqin}. This
indicates entering a secret code {jinru mima $\}$ which breaches {pojie} the target computer or network system, [end of
page 435] or using a valid identity {hefa shenfen} to enter the adversary’s computer or network system. Third is masking
intrusion {weizhuang ruqin}. This means sneaking into $\{ hun r u \}$ the internal network address {neibu wangzhi}
masked within the target network system, to conduct hacking activity {feifa huodong}. Fourth is deception intrusion $\{
qip ian ruq i n \}$ . This means posing as {maochong} a network system manager, exploiting modes such as sending of
e-mail or calling up a computer user to require him/her to provide a secret code [i.e., password] to facilitate carrying
out system maintenance $\{ wei h u \}$ , and then using the swindled code [password] to enter the adversary’s computer
network system. Fifth is virus intrusion {bingdu ruqin}. This indicates exploiting a virus preinstalled $\{ yus h e \}$
within the computer, to have specific data/resources $\{ ted ing zil iao \}$ within the adversary computer transmitted
back to one’s own computer. Sixth is spam intrusion {laji ruqin}. This means sending large quantities of spam {laji
xinxi} to the target computer or network, and causing its system due to overloading {fuhe guozhong} to produce mistakes
or freeze up {死机 siji}.

The Taiwan military’s informationized degree $\{ xin xih uac hen gdu \}$ is fairly high. It attaches unusual importance
to guarding against intrusions, and in regard to defending against the adversary’s intrusions into its critical computer
networks or military systems, the Taiwan military often exploits network firewalls {wangluo fanghuoqiang}, separates
{gekai} the hosts $\{ zhu j i \}$ for internal networks from the hosts which provide external services $\{ dui wai fuw u
\}$ , and filters unknown network actions $\{ xin gwe i \}$ and resources/data $\left\{ zil iao \right\}$ , so that even
if computer hackers intrude into the server host, they still will not be able to penetrate the server host and enter the
internal network system. Within the process of computer network operation $\{ yun xin g \}$ , the Taiwan military
strictly adopts measures such as electronic-cipher authentication cards {dianzi mima renzheng $\left. k a \right\}$ ,
fingerprints, and facial recognition $\{ ron gma o \ bia nsh i \}$ ; and when entering network operations $\{ wan glu o
\ zuo y e \}$ , everyone establishes a pass code $\{ ton gxi ngm a \}$ , and regularly changes it. The Taiwan military
also adopts methods such as network infiltration security checks {wangluo shentou anquan jicha}, network-intrusion real
time identification and response, network access monitoring/control and management inspections {wangluo cunqu jiankong
yu guanli jicha}, and e-mail defense and inspections, to strengthen the management of important networks.

(3) PSYOP

The Taiwan military holds that traditional PSYOP takes attacks on popular feeling $\{ ren xin \}$ as the operational
objective, while the various types of information activities within modern war — CNO, intelligence warfare, and EW —
also all attack the adversary’s psychology. Hence, the means of PSYOP also are the means of IW $\{ zix unz han \}$ , and
the objectives of PSYOP also are the objectives of IW. The Taiwan military holds that future operations first of all
must rely on intensive $\{ mij i \}$ , highefficiency, real-time information collection systems, [end of page 436] to
gain superiority in intelligence respects, so as to create good conditions for information deterrence $\{ xin xiw eis h
e \}$ . After that, via intense information suppression to interdict {zheduan} the operational opponent’s information
propagation avenues, or by exploiting satellite direct broadcasts $\{ wei xin gzh ibo \}$ and other modern media tools
to conduct propaganda on the might $\{ wei l i \}$ of high/new-tech weapons $\{ gao xin \ wuq i \}$ , one broadcasts
untrue information $\{ bus hix inx i \}$ , to exert pressure on him. Finally, by displaying the operational intention,
one shakes the opponent’s psychology, causing him to lose confidence and his defensive line {fangxian} to collapse, so
that he loses the will to resist and the capability to deal with crises.

Before combat or during combat, the Taiwan military also intends — via modes such as developing network PSYOP,
controlling $\{ gua nzh i \}$ and applying the media, enhancing popular support and morale {minxin shiqi}, strengthening
education for the officers and men $\{ gua nbi n g \}$ , and guarding against network intrusions — to strengthen
psychological protection, and boost PSYOP protection capability.

# (4) MILDEC

The Taiwan military holds that MILDEC and PSYOP both belong to stratagemquality actions {mouluexing zuowei}. It requires
that MILDEC should be closely complemented {miqie peihe} by means such as network warfare, EW, fire strikes, and modern
media, and be mutually adjusted-coordinated with other operational activities, to deter the adversary, confuse what is
seen and heard $\{ shi tin g \}$ , and cause assessments without grounds and decision-making errors.

The activities of the Taiwan military’s MILDEC are diverse. The common ones are as follows: employing computer networks
to transmit false information to the adversary, exploiting broadcast networks {guangbo wangluo} to conduct propaganda
with false messages, and exploiting mobile radar {jidong leida} and instruments {yiqi} which can transmit same-power
signals in different locations to transmit signals, create false impressions {假象 jiaxiang}, and interfere with the
adversary’s assessments and decision-making; setting up $\{ she zhi \}$ false targets, or exploiting vegetation $\{ zhi
bei \}$ , natural protective screens, and advanced technical means, to carry out camouflage and defilading {weizhuang,
zhebi} of important targets; applying airborne launchers {jizai fasheqi} to project metal chaff {jinshu ganraosi} and
flame projectiles to jam and deceive the adversary’s reconnaissance systems; and adopting various deception techniques to confuse the opponent and to
complement the main operational activities.

(5) Entity attacks {shiti gongji}

The Taiwan military holds that the hard strikes executed by applying special operations forces {tezhan budui}, precision
guided munitions [PGMs] {jingque zhidao wuqi}, anti-radiation weapons, and directed energy weapons [DEWs] {zhixiangxing
nengliang wuqi} against the adversary’s various information and electronic systems and equipment installations — air
defense radar, communication hubs {tongxin shuniu}, electric power system nodes, radio and TV stations, etc. — are
called entity attacks, and are important means for information and electronic operations. In wartime, one should, based
on information and electronic operations [end of page 437] integrated-whole planning {zhengti jihua}, tightly center on
the main operational activities of joint operations, and rationally apply entity attack strengths, mutually complemented
by various soft means of information and electronic attack, to seize battlefield information and electronic superiority.

# IV. IO capabilities of the Taiwan military…438

Although the organizational structure of the Taiwan military’s IO units is not large, nonetheless its means are
complete. It possesses various types of anti-aircraft {duiji} (including C-130HE EW aircraft), anti-ship {duijian}, and
anti-submarine {duiqian} electronic jamming and counter-jamming equipment. A good many pieces of the Taiwan military’s
IO equipment belong to the same standard {制式 zhishi} as the US military’s active-duty electronic equipment, and the
performance of its main IO equipment has almost reached the same level as that of the US military, so it has a fairly
strong IO capability.

(1) Electronic warfare capabilities

# 1. Electronic reconnaissance capabilities

Electronic reconnaissance is under the unified adjusting-coordination and control {guanzhi} of the Military Staff HQ
{canmou benbu} Telecommunications Development Section {电讯发展室 dianxun fazhan shi}. It mainly employs ground electronic
reconnaissance stations and electronic reconnaissance aircraft, as well as electronic reconnaissance equipment carried
on operational ships, to conduct strategic and tactical electronic reconnaissance against the adversary.

(i) Ground electronic reconnaissance capability

At present, the Taiwan military mainly uses electronic reconnaissance stations on Taiwan Island and the peripheral
islands, to intercept and detect the mainland’s various types of message ELINT {信电子情报 xindianzi qingbao}. Among these,
the Military Staff HQ’s Telecom Development Section has set up several electronic reconnaissance stations on Taiwan
Island, and has set up work teams {gongzuo dui} on Kinmen [Quemoy], Matsu, and Dongyin [at the northeast tip of the
Matsu group]; its Military Intelligence Bureau has set up electronic reconnaissance stations (teams) on the outer
islands; and its Army Technical Research Division {lujun jishu yanjiu chu} has set up electronic position-finding
stations {dianzi ceweizhan} at Chang-hua and Tai-nan [in central and southern Taiwan, respectively]. These electronic
reconnaissance units {danwei} in peacetime uninterruptedly conduct radio reconnaissance of the adversary, and are
capable of fairly effectively detecting the adversary’s radio signals in the southeast seacoast area and in the Taiwan
Strait, and of conducting analysis and arrangement and storage {zhengli chucun} of the adversary’s ELINT it has
collected, so as to carry out electronic jamming and electronic counter-jamming against the adversary [end of page 438]

# (ii) Air electronic reconnaissance capability

The [Taiwan military’s] air electronic reconnaissance mainly is conducted by electronic reconnaissance and early warning
aircraft fielded by the Air Force EW squadrons and AEW aircraft squadrons, and by the Air Force’s ground ELINT stations.
At present, the Air Force uses AT-3 model EW and C-130HE EW aircraft to conduct surface-to-air reconnaissance {duikong
zhencha}. These can capture our side’s radio/wireless communication and radar signals, and on such grounds analyze and
assess the disposition and traits $\{ tex ing \}$ of our side’s radio/wireless communication, the coverage scope of
[our] radar systems, and [our] deployment gaps {peizhi jianxi} and observation blind areas $\{ gua nce \ : man gqu \}$ .
The electronic reconnaissance and detection systems of the $\mathrm { E } { - } 2 \mathrm { T }$ model early warning
aircraft are outfitted with fairly high-function signal and data processors {xinhao, shuju chuliji} and databases. These
can rapidly intercept signals, classify {fenxuan} signals, and identify targets, and can detect/measure {zhence} the
signal parameters of the electronic radiation sources, including radar and IFF devices {diwo shibieqi}, with which our
air, ground, and sea weapons systems are equipped.

In addition, the Air Force Electronic Monitoring Center {电子监察中心 dianzi jiancha zhongxin} also uses its subordinate
monitoring detachments {jiancha fendui}, electronic direction-finding stations, and electronic reconnaissance stations
(teams) to collect radio signals and conduct reconnaissance and detection of our Air Force’s communication networks and
communication situation in the southeast seacoast area.

(iii) Sea electronic reconnaissance capability

The American-made SLQ-32(V)2 EW systems installed on the [Taiwan] Navy’s Knox-class missile frigates {daodan huweijian}
and the “Chang Feng 4” {“长风4号”} EW systems installed on the Cheng Kung-class missile frigates all have very strong
electronic reconnaissance capability; they can effectively detect our side’s radar and communication signals, and automatically carry out signal classification and identification {xinhao fenxuan, shibie}. In
addition, the combat intelligence elements {zhandou qingbao dui}, direction-finding stations, and technical
reconnaissance teams {xiaozu} subordinate to the Navy Communications Research Section {tongxin yanjiushi} can fairly
effectively monitor {jiankong} radio/wireless communication between our naval ships in the Taiwan Strait area and their
bases.

# 2. Electronic jamming capability

[The Taiwan military’s] electronic jamming operations mainly consist of the professional strengths of the Army
communication and EW groupings {tongxin dianzizhan qun}, the EW companies of all large formations, the Penghu Defending
Force’s EW platoons, and the Air Force’s EW squadrons and AEW aircraft [end of page 439] squadrons. These conduct
suppressive and deceptive jamming.

# (i) Ground jamming capability

At present, the [Taiwan] Army EW units are equipped with US-produced and Taiwan self-made $\{ ziz h i \}$ multiple types
of communication jammers and radar jammers. Of these, the communication jammers can carry out jamming of our side’s
shortwave and USW AM and FM communication; and the radar jammers can carry out jamming of the adversary’s battlefield
surveillance radar and target detection radar {mubiao zhence leida}. The Taiwan joint forces brigades {lianbing lu} in
wartime can obtain the reinforcement {jiaqiang} of two electronics companies, which are equipped with 9 sets of
electronic equipment. Their ground communication interception range is $2 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , air interception range
can reach $1 0 0 \mathrm { k m }$ , ground communication jamming range can reach 30 $\mathrm { k m }$ , and air
communication jamming range can reach $4 0 \mathrm { k m }$ . This equipment can simultaneously suppress a number of
HF/VHF {gaopin/shengaopin} communication dedicated networks {专网 zhuanwang} of the adversary. If they can obtain air and
ground electronic support {dianzi zhiyuan} [ESM] from higher levels or from a powerful nation $\{ qia ngg u o \}$ ,
their electronic offense capability can simultaneously suppress 34 dedicated networks.

# (ii) Air jamming capability

The Taiwan Air Force attaches extreme importance to the development of selfdefense EW capability for its aircraft.
Besides the imported 1:1 full complement {peitao} of self-defense EW equipment (systems) on the F-16s and Mirage 2000s,
it also has imported from Israel and other nations self-defense electronic jamming equipment such as electronic jamming
pods, radar warning devices {leida gaojingqi}, and chaff/IR dispensers {botiao/hongwai toufangqi}, and supplied them for
use in refitting {gaizhuang} its active-duty aircraft. Almost all of its active-duty aircraft have selfdefense EW
equipment. The F-16 models are equipped with AN/ALQ-184 electronic jamming pods, which can automatically identify threat
signals $\{ wei xie xin hao \}$ , and, based on the nature of the threat, select the optimal jamming mode, jamming
direction, and jamming beam $\{ gan rao \ bos h u \}$ , to conduct effective electronic jamming against the target
aircraft and missiles. The above jamming equipment, when conducting jamming against various models of ground radar, as
well as radio/wireless communication network platforms $\{ wan gta i \}$ , have an effective operating distance {zuoyong
juli} of as much as $1 0 0 \mathrm { k m }$ or more. If the jammers fly along the Taiwan Strait center line, they can
produce quite strong jamming of most radar [sets] in the southeast seacoast area. [end of page 440]

# (iii) Sea jamming capability

[Taiwan’s] naval electronic operations missions mainly are undertaken by Navy surface operational ships {shuimian
zuozhan jianting}. At present, its destroyers, frigates, and missile speedboats [fast attack craft] are mostly outfitted
with fairly advanced EW equipment {dianzi duikang shebei}, and staffed by special-duty {专职 zhuanzhi} [i.e.,
“specialist”] EW {dianzizhan} personnel. The ultrahigh-speed hull-mounted dispersed passive jamming chaff and IR decoy
launch system {chaogaosu jianwai sankai wuyuan ganrao botiao he hongwai youer fashe xitong} installed on the Knox-class
ships is integrated $\{ yit i \}$ with the ship-mounted electronic reconnaissance system, IR warning system, and fire
control system; and under computer control, according to a program $\{ che ngx u \}$ , it automatically launches chaff
projectiles {botiao dan} and IR decoy missiles $\{ you erd a n \}$ , with a maximum range (of fire) of $2 0 0 0 \mathrm
{ m }$ , and a single-shot chaff projectile RCS which can reach 4000 square meters. The La Fayette-class [ROC Kang
Ding-class] frigates are equipped with new-generation simulated EW systems {monihua dianzizhan xitong} and “Dagaie”
{“达盖”} passive chaff launch device, which give them fairly strong electronic suppression, counter-suppression, and
threat warning capabilities. The Perry-class missile frigates are equipped with AN/SLQ-32 integrated EW systems, as well
as with the MK-36 model passive jamming chaff and IR decoy launch system. The AN/SLQ-32 integrated EW system’s main
function is to carry out detection $\{ tan c e \}$ , identification, direction-finding, and alarm issuing for
approaching radar-guided anti-ship missiles {leida zhidao fanjian daodan}; but at the same time, this system can control
the shipborne MK-36 passive jamming chaff and IR decoy launch system. In addition, the shipborne jamming rockets
{jianyong ganrao huojian} developed by the Taiwan Academia Sinica [Academy of Sciences] {zhong ke yuan} can be installed
with electronic jamming smoke bombs {dianzi ganrao yanwudan}; at range of $2 0 0 0 \mathrm { m }$ , these form a jamming
screen {ganraomu} and create false targets, causing incoming missiles to deviate from course, and effectively
counter-suppressing missiles of different guidance systems.

3. Electronic defense capability

# (i) Radar early warning system electronic protection capability

Today, the Taiwan Military Staff HQ’s “Heng Shan,” the Air Force’s ‘Ch’iang Wang,” the Navy’s “Ta Ch’eng,” and the
Army’s “Lu Tzu” command automation systems {zidonghua zhihui xitong} already have respectively realized computer networking {jisuanji lianwang}. They can carry out unified control $\{ ton gyi gua nzh i \}$ of intelligence acquired by
the Air Force’s various control and reporting stations {guanzhi baogao zhan} and the Navy’s various radar observation
and communication stations {leida guantong zhan} plus its airborne and shipborne radar, and have enabled their radar
early warning systems [end of page 441] to form a wideband {kuanpindai} radar signal spatial net {leida xinhao kongjian
wang} with a fairly high signal concentration {xinhao mijidu}. All radar [sets] are mutually coordinated $\{ xia ngh uxi
eto n g \}$ and mutually alternating {xianghu jiaoti}, which has boosted integrated-whole jam-resistance capability
{zhengti kangganrao nengli}. In the newly fielded E-2T model early warning aircraft, the radar jammers have a peak power
as high as the megawatt [MW] level $\{ zha owa j i \}$ , and adopt pulse compression {maichong yasuo} technology; they
have pulse frequency agility {maichong pinlyu jiebian} and pulse-group frequency agility {maizu pinlyu jiebian}
capability, and thus are not easily jammed.

(ii) Communication system electronic protection capability

The Taiwan military’s ring-island fiberoptic cable net {huandao de guanglan $wan g \smash { \frac { \ d g } { \ d s } }
\$ , and its seabed fiberoptic cable net linking Taiwan to the outer islands, including Kinmen, Matsu, and Wuchiu
[Wuciou, west of Hsin-chu in the Taiwan Strait], have already been completed, added to which is the building of a number
of satellite receiving stations. The [military’s] communication system already has basically activated a 3-D
communication net {liti tongxin wang} composed of underground (seabed) cables (fiberoptic cables), ground microwave
{dimian weibo} [relays], and outer space communication satellites {taikong tongxin weixing}. These networks can
automatically switch over among one another, and have provided a jam-resistance capability for this communication
system.

# (2) Network warfare capability

In computer information network warfare [CNO] {jisuanji xinxi wangluozhan} respects, the Taiwan military already has the
capability to attack our civilian information networks, and has now set about implementing its “computer network
information warfare” {“diannao wangluo zixunzhan”} plan. The Taiwan “Ministry of Defense” has already organized a
standing computer hacker team {changbei heike xiaozu} specializing in reconnaissance and detection {zhence} and
recording of loopholes in mainland web sites $\{ wan gzh a n \}$ and their patch $\{ xiu b u \}$ situation as a
technical reserve {chubei} in wartime. At the same time, it has newly organized research teams $\{ yan jiu xia ozu \}$ ,
and lays stress on studying the security {anquanxing} and attackable quality $\{ keg ong / ixi n g \}$ of mainland
telecom IP [Internet Protocol] telephone networks. Exploiting the mainland’s reliance on Taiwan-made computer
accessories {jisuanji peijian}, it plans to embed virus chips {qianru bingdu xinpian} within products sold to the
mainland, and under suitable conditions, via remote-control triggering {yaokong chufa} of the viruses, thus disrupt
[sabotage] {pohuai} computer systems and user data. Once shooting begins in a war, Taiwan will add in certain special
signals {teshu de xinhao} within the electronic jamming signals it transmits. The hardware of all computers within the
operating range {zuoyong fanwei} of this electronic signal may then respond on the computer bus {jisuanji zongxian} to
the weak jamming trigger signal {weiruo de ganrao chufa xinhao}, thus triggering the virus.

Purely in software respects, [Taiwan] by and large has partitioned its targeting {zhendui} of the mainland’s prevalent
operating systems {caozuo xitong} in three respects: the first is the “D&W Darwin Plan {达尔文计划 daerwen jihua}, where the
targets of attack $\{ gon gji dui xia n g \}$ are [end of page 442] machines running the DOS and Windows [D&W] operating
systems; and the associated hardware’s full set of drivers {peitao de qudong chengxu} are one of the main propagation
avenues. Second is the “Jasmine Plan {moli jihua},” targeting Linux and UNIX, as well as the VAX/VMS system relatively
prevalent within the mainland’s scientific research units {keyan danwei} and education departments. Third is the highly
secret {baomi} Internet network plan. One Taiwan network research team already has resolved the network trigger and
control problems for computer viruses.

(3) PSYOP capabilities

The Taiwan military holds that war also is a struggle of will between the two sides, and that strength or weakness of
spirit {jingshen} is the key in deciding victory or defeat in war. However, spirit is produced by psychology; thus,
psychological warfare is especially important compared to operations with tangible weapons.

What the Taiwan military currently adopts is a peacetime-wartime combined {pingzhan jiehe} PSYOP defensive SoS {心防体系
xinfang tixi}. Taiwan’s “Ministry of Defense” has established lieutenant colonel/commander [rank] {zhongxiao}
psychological guidance officers {心理辅导官 xinli fudao guan}, responsible for policy research and formulation $\{ zhe ngc
eya ndi n g \}$ for armed forces-wide psychological health work {quanjun xinli weisheng gongzuo} and for executing
supervising-guiding $\{ dud a o \}$ ; the general HQs $\{ zon gbu \}$ of all services have established major/lieutenant
commander [rank] {shaoxiao} psychological guidance officers, who supervise-guide all divisionlevel and higher units
(including the joint-forces brigades and all military colleges and schools {yuanxiao}) in establishing “psychological
health centers,” and regularly conduct psychological health (guidance) lectures and studies {jiangxi} and circuit
education $\{ xun hui jia oyu \}$ ; and the large formation, corps, and joint-forces brigade units have established
captain/lieutenant [rank] $\{ sha ngw e i \}$ psychological guidance officers. All services’ general HQs and military
police command HQs {宪令部 xian lingbu} watch the situation to guide and plan {guihua} the dispatch {diaopai} of officers,
NCOs, and men $\{ gua n , shi , bin g \}$ or hired personnel having professional knowledge {zhuanye zhishi} as well as
zeal for service $\{ fuw ure che n \}$ , to assume the post of assistant guidance teacher {zhuli fudao laoshi}. The
Taiwan military specifies that all levels of political warfare departments {政战部门 zhengzhan bumen} and political warfare
officers {政战 军官 zhengzhan junguan} have full authority {quanquan} for psychological guidance activity in the responsible
departments. Company guidance heads {连辅导长 lian fudao zhang} hold concurrent posts {jianren} as $1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }
.$ -line “psychological guidance officers” {“心 辅官” “xin fu guan”}, responsible for taking initiative to grasp those
officers and men whose morale is unstable $\{ qin gxu buw e n \}$ , and assist them in unhurriedly resolving {舒 解
shujie} psychological problems. Psychological guidance officers at the “psychological health centers” handle cases
turned over after company-level guidance {liandui fudao} has failed to show significant improvement; and “area $\{ diq u
\}$ psychological health centers” then combine hospital treatment resources with social support {zhichi} networks, to
carry out concentrated guidance, and bring into play the reconstructive functions {chongjian gongneng} of corrective
treatment {矫治 jiaozhi}, medical treatment, and psychology.

In order to defend against the adversary’s psychological offensives {xinli gongshi} and strengthen control over the
thought behavior {sixiang xingwei} of the officers and men, the Taiwan military attaches extreme importance to the
establishment and improvement of a PSYOP defensive SoS $\{ xin zha nfa ngy uti x i \}$ , and in particular, the Taiwan
military’s psychological guidance activity has become the center of attention {引 入注目 yinru zhumu}. Starting in 1990, it
set up “psychological health centers” within the corps, [end of page 443] on the “Ministry of Defense Global Information
Network {quanqiu zixun wang}” it set up psychological guidance web sites {xinli fudao wangzhan}, and within the units it
universally established a psychological guidance system $\{ xin fuz hid u \}$ . The aim is to announce, guide, and
popularize {宣导推广 xuandao tuiguang} psychological health education, and rely on professional psychological consultants
employing the consultation and interview mode {zixun wutan fangshi}, to rectify $\{$ 导正 daozheng} officers and men
[showing] deviant psychology and behavior, and mutually complement {xiangfu xiangcheng} this with management and
instructional {管教 guanjiao} measures, to properly adjust {调适 tiaoshi} their psychology, improve their character $\{ ren
g e \}$ , and eliminate problems hiding in the officers and men, [to achieve] solid unit combat power {jianshi budui
zhanli}. [end of page 444; end of book]