# II. Basic requirements for space blockade operations…135

Space blockade operations generally are offensive operational activities carried out by the side whose space forces hold
superiority. Their focus of attention does not lie in initiative-based wiping out of the enemy space forces, but rather
in completely cutting off the enemy contacts with outer space. Those organizing and conducting space blockade operations
should — based on this focus of attention — grasp the requirements in 4 respects. [end of page 135]

1. Subordination to the overall situation, with thorough operations-research-based planning

The main activities of space blockade operations are all conducted in outer space. Since outer space belongs to the
common space of all humankind, in situations of abiding by international space law and bilateral or multilateral
international space conventions and agreements, any nation or organization having space flight capability always can
enter outer space; while the military and civilian spacecraft of various nations are all given a disposition in outer
space, only with differences in their operating orbits. This then has formed a space battlefield posture with the
interweaving of all parties: the enemy, the friendly side, friendly neighbors, and neutral states. Conducting blockade
operational activities in this complex battlespace extremely easily causes “accidental damage” to non-enemy spacecraft,
and thus triggers international conflicts and disputes over outer space. Hence, conducting space blockade requires
subordination and service to the strategic overall situation; this not only means abiding by the associated
international laws and regulations, but also means making choices based on the current international circumstances and
the developing situation of war. [We] should occupy the high ground of the strategic overall situation, carry out
thorough operations-research-based planning, conscientiously do a good job in the application of operational means and
in the control of time and space, and fully grasp the operational progress, so that all operational activities will have
an active influence on the strategic overall situation.

2. Integrated-whole operations, with key point blockade

The forces for conducting space blockade operations not only include the space forces themselves, but also include other
land, sea, and air units having space blockade capability. Since the blockade means and blockade methods applied by the
various operational strengths differ from one another, and since the blockade capabilities they possess similarly have
their strong points and shortcomings, it is thus necessary to develop the strong points and avoid the shortcomings,
rationally apply [the various strengths], see that all operational strengths are closely coordinated, and form
integratedwhole might for the blockade. At the same time, due to the hugeness and complexity of a space system, and to
the large number and wide-ranging distribution of space installations, an all-around blockade is not only unrealistic
but also impossible. Only by focusing on the enemy space system’s compositional characteristics and the position and
role of its various components, and by selecting their vital sites for implementing key point blockade and control, can
the optimal blockade effects be obtained.

3. Flexible use of troops, with combination blockade and strike

In space blockade operations, the main goal lies in blocking the enemy space forces from entering the space battlefield
or conducting orbital maneuver, and not in seeking to thoroughly wipe out the enemy. As long as the enemy cannot timely
and effectively carry out space launch and orbital maneuver, the blockade operations will directly achieve their goal.
Hence, during space blockade operational activities, [we] should take realizing the blockade as the basic focus of
attention, combine blockade with strike, blockade when we can do so, strike when we cannot blockade, and after striking
return to blockading. The two means are flexibly applied and promote one another. Concretely speaking, we should
flexibly use troops based on the degree of threat posed to us by the enemy space forces and on our capability for
blockade operations. Under ordinary circumstances, against an enemy having powerful space forces, [we] should employ
strike as primary, carry out key point strikes at the enemy’s critical-quality ground space installations and in-orbit
spacecraft, [end of page 136] and swiftly degrade the enemy space launch and orbital maneuver capabilities, to create
the conditions for follow-on blockade operations. Against an enemy with weaker space forces, [we] should combine
blockade with strike, use fire strikes to paralyze the enemy space system and via orbital obstacle setup limit the
enemy’s in-orbit spacecraft from carrying out orbital maneuver. Against $3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ -party space forces
who provide assisting support to the enemy, [we] should adopt blockade as primary, and mainly via orbital obstacle setup
blockade and limit their normal operation or orbital maneuver in order to achieve the blockade goal. Unless the $3 ^ {
\mathrm { r d } }$ -party space forces constitute a serious threat to us, we usually will not carry out fire strikes
against them, so as to avoid expansion of the conflict.

4. Full preparations, for continuous blockade

The goal and characteristics of space blockade operations have decided that their duration is generally fairly long;
moreover, the blockade effects similarly will have difficulty being manifested within a short time. In particular, when
implementing a blockade against a space power or against an enemy obtaining assisting support from $3 ^ { \mathrm { r d
} }$ -party space forces, the situation is even more like this. Long-lasting space blockade operations inevitably
attrite large quantities of manpower, material resources, and financial

resources, and once the support $\{ { zhi chi } \}$ is of no use, it will directly lead to failure of the activities. To
this end, [we] must do a good job of full preparations in regard to the application of strength and the preparations for
materiel in order to maintain a sustained blockade capability. This then requires that commanders must profoundly
understand the protracted quality of space blockade operations and, while reinforcing the preparations, scientifically
and rationally apply the operational strengths and blockade modes, so as to seize the initiative in the space blockade
versus counter-blockade struggle.

# Section 3: Space Strike Operations…137

Space strike operations signify operational activities which apply space forces, under assisting support and
complementation by other services and arms, to execute strikes on enemy land, sea, air, and outer space targets.
Offensive quality is the fundamental attribute of space strike operations. This has determined that the participating
main body in space strike operations is the strike force-strength within the space forces, and that the basic activities
include wiping out, sabotaging, suppressing, or destroying the enemy’s important strategic and campaign targets. Along
with the full-speed development of space technology, and the successful development and large-scale commitment and use
of various types of space weapons and equipment, new concept weaponry such as DEWs and KEWs will become the most
important “trump cards” {sashoujian} in future operations, and are certain to greatly boost the might of space strike
operations. This weaponry thus makes the position and role of space strike operations even more important.

# I. Main activities of space strike operations…137

According to the level, space strike operations can be divided into strategic space strike operations and campaign space
[end of page 137] strike operations, and according to the participating strengths, they can be divided into independent
space strike operations and joint space strike operations. Based on the differences in the engagement space, space
strike operations usually can be divided into two types of activities: attack against enemy spacecraft and
space-to-ground strike.

# 1. Operations to attack enemy spacecraft

The various types of spacecraft are the core of the space forces, and executing strikes against them in fundamental
terms will strip away the enemy’s space operations capability. Hence, attack on enemy spacecraft is the main activity in
space strike operations, and also is where the center of gravity [COG] lies in seizing and maintaining space dominance.
Attack on enemy spacecraft can adopt multiple methods.

First is the use of DEWs to carry out the attack. DEWs mainly include laser weapons, particle-beam weapons, and
microwave weapons, each having their respective merits. Of these, laser weapons mainly use laser beams to irradiate the
spacecraft for a certain time, and to form high temperatures after which the spacecraft will be damaged. This type of
weapon is not affected by EM jamming, and has a long operating range and high hit precision; it is a space attack weapon
with outstanding performance. Particle-beam weapons use a high-energy, high-current accelerator to accelerate a particle
beam, and thus form a high-energy, high-current particle beam which is fired at near-light speed toward the target and
destroys the spacecraft via kinetic energy. This type of weapon has high attack speed, high destruction capability, and
flexibility in use and control; it can be employed in all types of weather, and is an ideal anti-spacecraft weapon.
Microwave weapons exploit intense microwave-beam energy to kill the target, and have very strong kill power. When using
DEWs to execute an attack, based on the characteristics of the different types of weapons, they can be given an echelon
disposition in a zone which the enemy spacecraft crosses. Once the enemy spacecraft crosses this zone, the attack can be
swiftly launched from many directions. At the same time, DEWs also can be installed in airborne platforms or space-based
platforms, to realize multi-domain attack against the enemy spacecraft.

Second is the use of KEWs to carry out the attack. KEWs mainly include high-speed interceptor missiles and EM guns
(railguns); these have quite high lethal might, and can directly kill a spacecraft. The use of KEWs usually exploits the
modes of rocket propulsion or EM-force drive, to accelerate the payload to a sufficient speed for direct collision with
the target spacecraft, so as to destroy it. Alternatively, the payload can carry a high-energy explosive; this can be
detonated near the target, to form dense metal fragments which will destroy a satellite.

Third is the use of a space shuttle, manned space ship, or space station to capture an enemy spacecraft. A space shuttle
or aerospace plane can be used to disposition, maintain, or recover various types of spacecraft, and can exploit its own
detection facilities equipment to detect an enemy spacecraft and carry out tracking and jamming of it, as well as being
able to capture it. Moreover, this type of spacecraft can conveniently carry out space maneuver, has a rapid reaction
speed, and can execute multimode attack and sabotage of an enemy spacecraft. Manned space ships and space stations
operate in outer space for long periods, [end of page 138] and have strong independent operational capability; moreover,
the astronauts they carry not only can operate their weapons systems to execute attacks on enemy spacecraft, but also
can directly capture enemy spacecraft.

Fourth is the use of space mines or ASAT satellites to execute the attack. In peacetime, [we] can use the space
observation net to conduct uninterrupted observation and positioning of the enemy’s various types of spacecraft, and
store [the data] in a target database. Prior to combat, in advance [we can] launch space mines or ASAT satellites into
space, and put them in standby status in a certain orbit. In wartime, once there is a need to execute an attack on a
target, the space mine or ASAT satellite can be maneuvered in orbit to the target orbit, and the space mine can be
detonated to destroy the target, or [the ASAT satellite] can directly collide with the target.

Fifth is the use of soft-kill means to cause a spacecraft to fail. This can exploit a laser weapon emitting a low-power
laser beam to irradiate an enemy spacecraft’s visible-light and infrared [IR] sensors and radar antenna, thus blinding
them; it also can release metal fragments and jamming substances such as particles and aerosols in an enemy spacecraft’s
orbit, to obscure the enemy spacecraft’s sensors, so that they lose normal operating capability. This furthermore can
involve electronic jamming of an enemy spacecraft’s electronic facilities equipment and sensors, to sabotage their
normal operation or cause their functions to not work; or it can involve sabotage of the enemy space system’s computer
network, so that the entire space system falls into paralysis, thus creating favorable conditions for us to conduct fire
strikes.

# 2. Space-to-ground strike activities

The superior spatial location possessed by outer space has made it become the commanding heights of operations under
informationized conditions. By having seized space dominance, [we] will have freedom of activities on the land, sea, and
air battlefields. The execution of strikes from outer space against targets on the ground, at sea, and in the air has
superiority unmatchable by other operational activities. Some examples are a battlespace which covers the whole globe,
participating strengths which are few but streamlined, operational activities which are swift and sudden, and
operational effects which are high in shocking power. In executing space-to-ground strike, the main goal is to
coordinate with and provide assisting support to Army, Navy, and Air Force operations, and the key point is to strike at
the critical strategic and campaign targets in the enemy’s operational SoS. These targets mainly are as follows: C2 type
targets, including reconnaissance and early warning systems, communication hubs, and command centers; war potential type
targets, including logistics and replenishment systems, military-industrial bases, electric power and energy systems,
and infrastructure within the strategic and campaign depth; counter-preemptive operational capability type targets,
including missile positions, Air Force airfields, naval bases, nuclear bases, and all types of IW installations.

Due to the differences in the operating spaces of the strike weapons, space-to-ground strike activities come in two
modes: “space-to-ground” style strikes and “ground-tospace-to-ground” style strikes. “Space-to-ground” style strikes
signify operational activities using space-based weapons to attack enemy ground targets from outer space. The weapons
used for “space-to-ground” style strikes mainly include space-based DEWs and KEWs; these have characteristics such as
rapid reaction, [end of page 139] global maneuver and precision strike capability, and strong instantaneous destruction
effects. At present, space-based DEWs and KEWs are still in the experimental research phase, and although in several
respects this research has already achieved breakthrough progress, nonetheless due to the technical complexity and the
stringent requirements on spacebased platforms, these weapons are still quite far from real combat disposition and
application. In this research, the space powers — the U.S. and Russia — have taken the leading positions worldwide in
terms of studies on the technologies correlated to spacebased laser and microwave weapons, and have realized
phased-nature achievements. Once the US and Russian space-based weapons begin to be applied in real combat, they will
induce revolutionary changes in space operations. At that time, [the two nations] will be able to directly strike from
space against important targets on the land, sea, and air battlefields, to fulfill the strategic and campaign missions.
“Ground-to-space-to-ground” style strikes signify operational activities which employ orbital bombing weapons and
weapons carried aboard manned space ships, space shuttles, or aerospace planes, to effect destruction from space of
enemy ground targets. Orbital bombing weapons in peacetime are prepositioned on the ground and in wartime are launched
into orbit; then, they use their reverse-thrust rockets to reenter the atmosphere and execute strikes on [ground]
targets. Since orbital bombing weapons have low trajectories and high speeds, they can attack a target from two opposing
directions, and thus are more difficult to defend against than ballistic missiles. Manned space ships, space shuttles,
and aerospace planes all have powerful orbital maneuverability and ultrahigh-altitude and ultrahigh-speed flight
capability; and based on operational needs and requirements, they can flexibly strike at a variety of high-value targets
within the enemy’s strategic full depth. Under current space technical and equipment conditions, in terms relative to
space-based DEWs and KEWs, the technology for orbital bombing weapons and for manned space ships, space shuttles, and
aerospace planes is basically mature, so “ground-to-space-to-ground” style strikes will be the main mode of
space-to-ground strike.

# II. Basic requirements for space strike operations…140

Space strike operations are a type of strategic [quality] offensive activities and must occupy the high ground of the
strategic overall situation, including fully preparing and thoroughly working out an approach in planning. The key
points are on fully grasping the requirements in 4 respects: “integrated-whole operations, concealment and surprise, key
point strikes, and fighting a quick battle to force a quick decision.” They are an organic integrated whole with mutual
contacts. Of these, integrated-whole operations are the basis for space strike operations; concealment and surprise are
objective requirements for all operational activities, and in particular for first-strike activities; key point strikes
are an important avenue for ensuring fighting a quick battle to force a quick decision, and for realizing the
operational intention within a short time; and fighting a quick battle to force a quick decision is the starting point
and ending point of space strike operations.

1. Integrated-whole operations

This requirement signifies synthetic application of the various strengths participating in space strike operations and
proper handling of the adjusting-coordination among various operational patterns and operational means, to form an
organic integrated whole, [end of page 140] and with integrated-whole composite strength seize success in the
operations. Operations under informationized conditions are warfare of system versus system and of SoS versus SoS, and
the success of such operations to a very great extent is dependent on fully bringing into play the integrated-whole
might of the operational SoS. To this end, space operations commanders should rigorously organize operational
coordination, realize integrated-whole adjusting-coordination, and see that all operational strengths are highly
centralized and unified, so as to achieve the maximum operational effectiveness. They not only must concentrate on the
adjusting-coordination of the operational activities of the various partial strengths participating in space strike
operations and undertaking different missions — so that the operational activities of the space forces are combined with
the operational activities of the Army, Navy, and Air Force strengths, to fully bring into play the integrated-whole
might of all participating strengths — but also must carry out scientific organizational grouping of the space-based and
ground-based strength possessed by the space forces themselves and of their various weapons systems, according to
mission needs and requirements, to form a powerful, multifunctional operational system. In addition, all participating
strengths should establish the sense of the integrated whole, set out from the overall situation, trust and support $\{
\boldsymbol { z } hic h i \}$ one another, maintain strong combat unity, resolutely execute the jihua plans, take
initiative for assisting support to friendly neighbors, and consistently adjust-coordinate the fulfillment of space
strike operational missions.

# 2. Concealment and surprise

This requirement means fully exploiting favorable conditions where offensive activities hold the initiative, selecting
times and spatial areas (zones) to catch the enemy unaware, adopting means and fighting methods unimaginable to the
enemy, and conducting swift and concealed activities to execute surprise strikes at the enemy, to shake the enemy in
mental terms. At the same time, [it means] degrading the operational effectiveness of the enemy’s space-defense
operational SoS, reducing the losses to friendly force-strengths, and increasing the strike effects. Concealment and
surprise is an important guiding principle for organizing and conducting space strike operations and is the main means
for achieving a surprise raid. In particular, this is even truer in situations where the enemy space defense forces are
stronger while the friendly space strike forces are inadequate and their means limited. Even in situations where the
quality of the weapons and equipment holds superiority, the organizing and conducting of space strike operations still
should enforce the requirements for concealment and surprise, to expand the friendly superiority, reduce the degree of
difficulty in penetration, and achieve greater effects. From the viewpoint of the space forces’ own traits, since
spacecraft operation has a global quality and high-speed quality, with space-based weapons having characteristics such
as long range and rapid speed, and moreover since the operation of spacecraft in space is not limited by any political,
weather, or geographic factors, the result is that the space strike forces themselves are the best operational strengths
for achieving the element of surprise. In order to achieve concealment and surprise, first of all, [commanders] should
implement strict secrecy and effective camouflage, carry out active struggle with the enemy in all reconnaissance
activities, see that all friendly operational activities are conducted in a state of secrecy, and do everything possible
to avoid perception by the enemy. They should strictly limit the number of personnel having contact with operations
plans, as much as possible shorten the operational preparations time, properly seize time opportunities for adjustment
and transfer of friendly space forces, and enforce strict limits on EM-spectrum information and computer network
information in the space system, to guard against revealing the intention. Next, they should adopt a variety of methods
and means to deceive, paralyze, and confuse the enemy, [end of page 141] and create “time gaps” and “space gaps” in the
enemy’s assessments, so that friendly forces can exploit enemy loopholes. In peacetime, [commanders] should take care to
study and analyze the enemy’s space operations theory and space operations SoS, find their theoretical defects and
operational SoS weak points, and exploit them. They should formulate lifelike space operations diversion and deception
plans, exploit the news media and all other exploitable methods and means to issue true and false space launch and
spacecraft orbit information, and thus create misconceptions in the enemy’s thinking and psychology, to achieve the goal
of concealing the friendly side’s true intention.

3. Key point strikes

This requirement in essence stresses tightly centering on the space operations’ intention, concentrating the space
forces in the main direction and important time segments, and executing key point strikes on the critical targets and
vital site positions in the enemy operational SoS, to carry out structural sabotage of the enemy, weaken and paralyze
the integrated-whole functioning of the enemy operational SoS, and strive for gaining the optimal strike effects. From
the viewpoint of the space forces’ possible development situation within the future period, their quantitative scale
will be very limited, and they will not have the capability to simultaneously execute strikes on the numerous strategic
and campaign targets within the enemy’s depth. At the same time, in view of the enemy’s numerous targets, if
[commanders] do not distinguish the primary from the secondary, decentralize the force-strengths, and strike everywhere,
it will still be difficult to achieve the anticipated effects. Hence, only when they execute key point strikes can they
bring into play to the maximum extent the might of the limited space forces. In implementing the requirement for key
point strikes, the key points are on fully grasping the content in 3 respects: rational selection of the strike
objectives, concentrated use of force-strength, and committing the main forces in the important operational phases.
Selection of the strike objectives is a very important but also complex item of work. Whether the strike objectives are
selected correctly not only will decide whether the operational intention can be realized, but also will influence the
number of force-strengths which need to be committed and the length of time needed to achieve the goal. Space operations
commanders must focus on the strategic overall situation, and on the basis of carrying out all-around analyses of the
enemy operational momentum disposition and important targets, select the critical targets and vital site positions which
play a structural sabotage role in the enemy’s entire operational SoS, and execute the key point strikes against them.
In the course of space strike operations, [commanders] must concentrate use of the limited space forces in the first
strike and main operational direction, and for the operational activities of the critical operational time segments —
and via concentrated and fierce strikes at the main targets, gain the maximum strike effects within a short time, to
swiftly realize the operational intention.

# 4. Fighting a quick battle to force a quick decision

This requirement signifies fully exploiting favorable conditions to seize the initiative during space strike operations,
accurately and timely grasping time opportunities for the launch of operations, concentrating superior force-strength in
a rapid and concealed manner, and executing a decisive and powerful first strike to swiftly seize the operational
initiative. It also signifies execution of high-intensity, continuous strikes to swiftly exploit the combat results, not
give the enemy an opportunity to catch his breath, and strive within a fairly short time to achieve [end of page 142]
the operational goals. Fighting a quick battle to force a quick decision is something decided by the special quality of
space operations. Its biggest differences from other operational patterns are that the scale of space operational
strengths tends to be small, the attrition in operational activities is enormous, and the logistics and equipment
support is extremely difficult. This has determined that space operations must not and also cannot be sustained over too
long of a period. At the same time, the objectives of space strike operations mostly lie in the enemy’s strategic and
campaign depth, and their political sensitivity is very high. If [commanders] cannot resolve this problem within a
fairly short time, and are trapped in a situation of prolonged indecisiveness, they not only may aggravate the
operational strength losses, but also will be detrimental to political and diplomatic struggle, and will very easily
fall into a passive position. In order to realize fighting a quick battle to force a quick decision, first, when
organizing and conducting space strike operations, [commanders] should attach high importance to executing a powerful
first strike. This is because the first strike is most convenient to fully exploiting a position of initiative in
offensive operations, so as to achieve the element of surprise. Moreover, the first strike’s preparation time is longer,
the support conditions are better, and the various operations plans are complete, making it easy to achieve bigger
combat results. Execution of the first strike should concentrate use of space forces to strike at critical targets, so
as to gain the position of initiative in the strategic overall situation. Next, when preparing and conducting space
strike operations, [commanders] should fully grasp the linkup and complementation among all strike activities, so that
the next strike activity can fully exploit the combat results of the previous strike activity. At the same time, the
activities of all classes and types of strike weapons must be mutually coordinated, to boost the integrated-whole
operational effectiveness, accelerate the course of the space strike operations, and shorten the operational time.

# Section 4: Space Defensive Operations…143

Space defensive operations signify the sum of various active and passive measures and activities adopted in order to
prevent strikes by enemy space forces and attacks by ballistic missiles. Their operational goal is to support the
security of friendly space forces and of important strategic and campaign targets (including important political,
economic, and military targets). Along with the rapid improvements in space strike capability among nations around the
world, the threats coming from outer space are growing ever greater. Whether [we] will be able to effectively defend
against the enemy space forces’ strikes and ballistic missile attacks not only will have a bearing on the survival of
the space forces, but also will directly bear on the stability of the entire operational SoS. Hence, organizing and
conducting space defensive operations will become an important mission undertaken by the space forces.

# I. Main activities of space defensive operations…143

Based on the differences in the objects of operations and on the composition of the space system, space defensive
operations mainly include 3 types of operations: anti-missile operations, spacecraft defensive operations, and space base defensive operations. [end of page 143]

1. Anti-missile operations

Along with the rapid proliferation of missile technology, whether the threat of ballistic missiles can be effectively
resisted has become a common problem facing all nations. Anti-missile operations are operational activities which use
land-based, sea-based, and/or air-based anti-missile weapons systems to intercept and destroy enemy incoming strategic,
operational, or tactical missiles, and thus enable friendly important targets to avoid enemy missile strikes. At
present, the U.S., Russia, Japan, and Israel all have built anti-missile systems of differing scale; and in particular,
America’s “National Missile Defense (NMD) System” has already entered real-combat disposition. Since the entire flight
process of a ballistic missile from launch to target hit on the whole can be differentiated into 3 phases — boost phase,
intermediate phase, and reentry phase — and since their main trajectories are in outer space, with their payloads
crossing through space and reentering the atmosphere to attack the targets, anti-missile operations thus can focus on
the structural and kinematic features of the ballistic missiles’ different flight phases, to realize segment-by-segment
and layer-by-layer interception of the missiles, so as to boost the interception’s probability of success.

First is boost-phase interception. The flight phase of a ballistic missile from launch to the final-stage booster rocket
engine shutoff and separation is called the boost phase. In this phase, a ballistic missile has still not completed
payload-rocket separation; and with its slow flight speed, large target area, and distinct IR signature, the missile is
easy to detect and track, so this is the optimum timing for interception. The process of interception is as follows:
when a missile early warning system detects the launch of an enemy missile, it immediately performs measurements on and
tracking of the missile and transmits the missile’s coarse ballistic parameters via the C2 center to all anti-missile
weapons systems. Airborne laser [ABL] weapons use their own precision tracking and aiming systems to perform precision
measurements on and stable tracking of ballistic missiles still in boost-phase flight, and to lock the laser-beam light
spot on a weak position on the missile body (such as a point on the fuel tank or guidance system), after which the
ballistic missile is destroyed by the effects of buildup of high-power laser energy. Landbased and sea-based
anti-missile systems, based on the target ballistic parameters provided by the missile early warning system, will
swiftly calculate the contact point and launch an anti-missile missile(s), to destroy the target missile before it has
completed payload-rocket separation.

Next is mid-phase interception. The flight phase of a ballistic missile from payloadrocket separation to reentry of the
payload and false targets into the atmosphere along a forward predetermined trajectory to begin unpowered flight is
called the mid phase. In this phase, the ballistic missile’s flight time is the longest (an ICBM requires approximately
20 minutes, while a short-range ballistic missile still needs several minutes), which is beneficial to conducting
continuous interception of it. At the same time, the high vacuum and microgravity environment in outer space are
similarly beneficial to interception of payloads traveling through this space by laser weapons, EM guns, and
kinetic-energy interceptors. The process of interception is as follows: a spacebased detector net and ground early
warning radar net are used to perform detection of all targets released by the ballistic missile’s main module, and to
identify and continuously track the true payload hiding among [end of page 144] a false target grouping; then these nets
swiftly provide the payload’s precise orbital parameters to the C2 center. The C2 center, based on the information on
the number of incoming enemy missiles and their orbital parameters, will carry out firepower distribution and control of
the anti-missile weapons systems to intercept the incoming payloads.

Finally there is reentry-phase interception. The flight phase of a ballistic missile from payload reentry into the
atmosphere to target hit is called the reentry phase. In this phase, various types of light and heavy decoys will be
burned up when entering the atmosphere, and the true payload will be completely exposed; but since the payload during
this phase has a flight time of only around 1 minute, the requirement on the reaction speed of the interception
activities is extremely strict, and there is only one interception opportunity for each payload. The process of
interception is as follows: land-based X-band radar is used to swiftly lock onto the true payload on the basis of a
mid-phase, early-stage identification, and to vector land-based or sea-based anti-missile missiles to destroy the
payload before it hits its target, at a relatively safe altitude, via the warhead fragmentation mode.

The interception activities in the above 3 phases are mutually connected link-by-link, and have formed a
layer-upon-layer interception posture against ballistic missiles. The previous phase creates the conditions for the next
phase, while the next phase fully exploits the detection and tracking results of the previous phase; each interception
phase, while having its advantages and disadvantages, nonetheless cannot replace another phase. In order to boost the
operational efficiency of interception, [commanders] must establish a multilevel anti-missile defensive system, to
implement full-course interception of enemy ballistic missiles.

# 2. Spacecraft defensive operations

Spacecraft are the core of the space forces, so [commanders] must adopt a variety of defensive measures and activities
to ensure their safe and stable operation. Based on the differences in the structural and operating characteristics of
spacecraft, spacecraft defensive operations can synthetically apply multiple modes, including concealment and
camouflage, multi-satellite networking, structural ruggedizing, evasive maneuver, and orbital confrontation.

Concealment and camouflage is the application of advanced stealth and transformational camouflage techniques to conceal
a spacecraft’s nature, reduce the spacecraft’s detectability, and thus boost its survivability. Of these,
transformational camouflage mainly employs exterior design, so that our side’s spacecraft in external respects resemble
the spacecraft of the enemy or a third party, to increase the degree of difficulty in the enemy’s detection and
identification. Stealth camouflage, then, mainly employs energy-diffusion design, energy absorption, refractive
materials, and similar lowdetectability [low-observables] techniques and materials, to design and manufacture
spacecraft; reduce their radar, IR, and optical signatures; and perform technical processing of the signals transmitted
by the spacecraft, so that it is difficult for the enemy to detect, identify, track, and attack them.

Multi-satellite networking signifies the use of many structurally simple, single-function, low-cost small satellites to
replace large satellites with complex single structures, functional diversity, and high manufacturing costs. Compared to
large satellites, small satellites have many merits, including lighter weight, lower cost, and shorter development
cycles; [end of page 145] they can be mass produced; they can be mobile launched or piggybacked, and adapt to rapid
networking requirements, while involving low launch expense; and they can be operated in constellation formation mode,
for high entiresystem performance, high redundancy, and high destruction resistance. Taking small satellites as the
basis, and adopting the constellation and satellite-grouping modes for networked operation, on one hand enables boosting
the integrated-whole functioning of the satellite applications network SoS and saving on large amounts of funds. On the
other hand, they enable effective resistance to enemy ASAT weapons attacks, so that even if a single satellite or even
some satellites encounter an attack or experience a fault and fail, the remaining satellites still can continue to
execute the missions by re-networking and may not lead to the thorough paralysis of the entire satellite net.

Structural ruggedizing signifies carrying out ruggedizing of a spacecraft’s external structure and surfaces, to resist
attacks by anti-spacecraft DEWs and KEWs. Examples include covering a spacecraft’s surface with reactive armor, which
can partially absorb or dissipate the inertial energy of ultrahigh-speed projectiles, so that the spacecraft can to a
certain extent resist a KEW attack; mounting shields on a spacecraft’s sensors, so that when the sensors suffer an
attack by a laser or particle-beam weapon, the shields can be swiftly closed to protect the sensors; and using nuclear
energy instead of solar energy to provide a spacecraft’s power supply, which can greatly reduce the probability of
spacecraft failure caused by the solar cell array being damaged.

Evasive maneuver signifies altering a spacecraft’s operating orbit in a timely and swift manner, so as to evade attack
by an enemy anti-spacecraft weapon(s). When the spacecraft warning system detects information on encountering enemy
attack, it swiftly ascertains the nature of the threat, and timely transmits a warning to a ground C2 center or
autonomous navigation system, and under control by that center or system it effects orbital maneuver, to evade the
enemy’s anti-spacecraft attack.

Orbital confrontation signifies the use of space-based DEWs or KEWs to execute strikes against targets which threaten
the safety of our spacecraft. Orbital confrontation is the most active and effective means within spacecraft defensive
operations and it mainly employs attack with initiative against enemy anti-spacecraft weapons, to achieve the goal of
protecting friendly spacecraft in orbit. In order to effectively carry out orbital confrontation, [commanders] must have
an all-around grasp of the situation of the enemy anti-spacecraft weapons classes and quantities, as well as their
disposition and locations, and conduct rigorous surveillance of the movement of enemy anti-spacecraft operational units.
Once the enemy executes an attack, [commanders] should timely issue a warning, and do everything possible to destroy the
enemy anti-spacecraft weapons before they are launched or before they hit friendly target spacecraft.

# 3. Space base defensive operations

Space bases serve as basic parts of the space system, and their security is of the utmost importance in preserving the
stability of the entire space system and the continuity of space operational capability. Space bases and their
installations are widely distributed over the nation’s strategic depth and on the seas, and all of these targets can
encounter enemy attacks coming from the land, sea, air, and outer space. Hence, space base defensive operations are [end
of page 146] a type of synthetic operational activities, which include surface-to-air and surface-to-space defense, plus
ground and naval defensive operations. In the current period and for a while to come, surface-to-air defense and ground
and naval defensive operations will still form the main content of space base defensive operations. Of these, in terms
of surface-to-air defense, since cruise missiles, high-performance operational aircraft, and similar long-range air raid
force-strength and weapons already have the capability to strike at targets in the enemy’s strategic full depth, they thus constitute grave threats to space bases. However, from the viewpoint of the space bases themselves,
they do not at all have air defense operational capability. This then requires [commanders] to disposition sufficient
air defense strengths on land, at sea, and in the air in the areas (sea areas) where space bases are situated, and adopt
the area (zone) screening mode to support the surface-to-air security of the space bases. In terms of ground and naval
defense, along with the constant enhancement of the operational capability of SOF, the threats to space bases are
growing more severe every day; so [commanders] must disposition certain ground (naval) defensive force-strengths, to
guard against harassing attacks and sabotage by enemy SOF.

# II. Basic requirements for space defensive operations…147

Space defensive operations in terms of attributes are a type of defensive, passive operational activities. Their COG
lies in ensuring the security of friendly space forces and of important strategic and campaign targets. To this end, in
the organizing and implementation process, according to these attributes, and on the basis of carrying out full
preparations, [commanders] must implement unified command of all space defensive forces, form integrated-whole defensive
capability, and thus achieve the fixed defensive goals.

1. Full preparations, for rapid reaction

Clearly unlike other operations, the enemy strike forces faced in space defensive operations are either dispositioned in
the vast outer space, or come from enemy PGM or long-range raids by SOF; the degree of difficulty in defense is
extremely high, and enemy ballistic missiles are even more difficult to detect, track, and intercept. This then causes
extremely high passivity in space defensive operations, and often the early warning and imminent battle preparations
time is extremely brief; sometimes there is not even enough time for early warning and carrying out imminent battle
preparations, so that in situations of being caught off guard, [commanders] are forced to commit to operations. Hence,
full preparations for rapid reaction is a prerequisite for gaining the initiative in space defensive operations and is
an objective requirement for focusing on the space defensive operations’ own characteristics. Full preparations are the
basis for rapid reaction, and rapid reaction is an important focus of attention in the preparations for space defensive
operations. Full preparations signify the need to properly perform all items of preparatory work before an imminent
battle in space defensive operations, so as to lay the foundation for boosting wartime rapid reaction capability. All
preparatory work for space defensive operations should begin in peacetime, lay stress on grasping and accumulating data,
and reinforce studies on the objects of operations — in particular, the situation of the enemy’s readjustment of the
disposition of space forces, weapons and equipment development,

and studies on space operations theory. [end of page 147] The preparatory work also [requires] establishing a sound
zhidu system for all items of readiness, properly handling readiness thought and education, strengthening the idea of
readiness, and upholding the concept of being prepared at all times; and keeping grounded in the difficult and complex
situations when formulating multiple operations plans and COAs, and, based on developing changes in the situation of the
objects of operations and the operational environment, at the right time revising and perfecting those plans and COAs.
This also means building a perfected space defensive reconnaissance and early warning system, and, based on the
technical characteristics of the reconnaissance satellites, early warning aircraft, and ground radar composing this
system, setting echelon deployment and rational disposition, to form a full-dimensional {quanfangwei}, full-depth, 3-D
reconnaissance and early warning net, so as to realize early detection, early identification, and early decision-making,
and gain reaction time. This further means organizing space defensive operations drills at the right time, to boost the
units’ rapid reaction capability and the organizing and command capability of commanders and command organs. Rapid
reaction is a requirement for the units undertaking space defensive operational missions to strive to achieve the
ability to rapidly carry out space defensive operational missions in situations where the imminent battle preparations
time is brief, or even where there is no imminent battle preparations time. All operational strengths participating in
space defensive operations, based on the missions they themselves can undertake, should from start to finish maintain a
state of readiness adapted to the enemy-situation threat. The reconnaissance and early warning system should broadly
open up the intelligence sources, and reinforce reconnaissance of the enemy space strike and ballistic missile attack
situation, to timely detect signs of an enemy attack, gain even more early warning time, and achieve rapid detection,
rapid identification, and rapid interception. [Commanders] should build a rapid and agile command information network,
to boost command efficiency and achieve rapid transmission of intelligence information, plus accurate and decisive
command decision-making.

2. Integrated-whole operations, with protection and counterattack combined

Within space defensive operations, the participating strengths not only include the space forces, but also include the
correlated strengths of the Army, Navy, and Air Force; the composition is fairly complex, and at the same time the
battlespace involves the entire globe, so that the scope is extremely vast. Only by forming an integrated whole in
regard to the operational strengths and spaces, and by realizing integration $\{ yit i \}$ of protection, resistance,
and counterattack in regard to the operational activities, can success be seized in space defensive operations.
Integrated-whole operations signify the need to synthetically apply the space forces participating in space defensive
operations, plus the land, sea, and air correlated strengths, and synthetically employ air defense, anti-missile, and
ASAT weapons and EW equipment, so that they have scientific organizational grouping, leverage one another’s strong
points and offset one another’s shortcomings, and form a powerful synthetic space defensive capability. In accord with
the principle of not only giving consideration to the overall situation, but also laying stress on key points,
[commanders] should implement unified disposition of the space defensive forces, to form an integrated-whole defensive
operational momentum disposition with a mutual combination of land, sea, surface-to-air, and surface-to-space defense.
Thus, the integrated-whole composite strength of the aviation and space units, plus the air defense and space defense
units, as well as the ground and sea defense units, will screen the space system and other strategic targets.
[Commanders] should conduct anti-missile operations and spacecraft and space base defensive operations as the principal
line; combine the operational activities in the land, sea, air, space, and information fields; and combine the
protection, resistance, and counterattack operational activities, so that all operational activities adopted by the
various operational strengths in the different operational spaces [end of page 148] form an organic integrated whole.
[Commanders also] should fully consider the contradiction between the many targets which need to be protected and the
small number of defensive strengths, and employ the space defensive forces in a concentrated manner which also has key
points. In terms of time, the key point is on resisting the enemy’s first large-scale raid against the friendly space
system; in terms of space, the key point is on screening the areas occupied by friendly large-scale integrated
{zonghexing} space bases and the orbits occupied by important spacecraft; and in terms of the objects of defense, the
key point is on striking at the enemy targets posing the maximum threats to the friendly space system (such as
nuclear-tipped ICBMs, spacebased DEWs and KEWs, and operational platforms like space shuttles and aerospace planes).
Combination of protection and counterattack signifies that over the entire course and in all fields of space defensive
operations, [commanders will] organize all participating strengths in synthetically applying a variety of defensive
measures to implement rigorous protection for spacecraft, space bases, and important strategic and campaign targets, to
preserve their space operational capability and potential. On the basis of all-around protection, [commanders also]
should implement unified organizing and adjusting-coordination of all strengths participating in space defensive
operations, and concentrate the force-strength and weapons in the main direction and important time segments, to execute
active and key point based strikes at the enemy’s space strike forces and incoming ballistic missiles, to ensure the
stability of the friendly space defense SoS. Simultaneously with this, [commanders should] in good time organize the
space strike forces and the ground and sea long-range weaponry, as well as SOF, in conducting active offensive
operations and sabotage-raid operations behind enemy lines, and executing counterattacks on the enemy space system, to
weaken the enemy space strike capability and realize an organic combination of protection, resistance, and
counterattack.

3. Unified command, with close coordination

Space defensive operations involve operational missions jointly carried out by the participating space forces along with
the land, sea, and air correlated strengths; so only when there is unified command and close coordination can the
various defensive strengths be formed into an organic integrated whole. Unified command signifies the need to establish
a sound command SoS for space defensive operations, and straighten out the command relationships, so that all
participating strengths can conduct the activities under unified command by the space operations commanders and command
organs. On one hand, this requires that all levels of participating strengths must set out from the overall situation,
and thus firmly execute the instructions and orders of the space operations commanders and command organs. On the other
hand, space operations commanders should flexibly apply the command modes, in advance make clear to the lower levels
their authority limits for handling of critical situations, and implement a mutual combination of centralized command
and delegation mode of command, to ensure that the lower levels in situations where they have lost higher-level command
can act promptly at their own discretion, based on the general operational intent and actual needs and requirements.
[Space operations commanders] should achieve the following: unified formulation of space defensive operations plans;
unified disposition of all defensive force-strength and weapons; unified intelligence support; and unified
adjustingcoordination of all operational directions and of the operational activities of all participating strengths, so
that all strengths can adjust-coordinate their activities under a unified intent. Close coordination signifies the
requirement for all participating strengths to complement with initiative the formation of integrated-whole might in
space defensive operations. Space operations commanders and their command organs should implement unified operational
thought, and clarify for all participating strengths their operational missions, operational patterns, [end of page 149]
and activities timing and methods, so that the various strengths can adjust-coordinate their activities under the
unified intent. They also should thoroughly formulate coordination plans, and according to the predetermined operational
progress and the operational missions of all space defensive forces, clarify the principles and methods for coordination
among the various strengths, to provide a basis for coordinated operations. In the implementation process for space
defensive operations, commanders and their command organs must focus on the characteristic of rapid changes in
battlefield situations, at all times grasp the operational progress, and maintain uninterrupted coordination, to ensure
that all participating strengths from start to finish consistently adjust-coordinate their activities.

# Section 5: Space Information Assisting Support Operations…150

Space information assisting support operations signify operational activities which use space information support
strengths to provide land, sea, and air operational strengths with information assisting support and safeguarding
support from space, including reconnaissance and surveillance [R&S], missile early warning, communication relay,
navigation positioning, meteorological observation, and geodetic surveying and mapping. Due to restrictions by the
objective conditions of space technology development, space information assisting support operations are the main
operational pattern for space operations today. The practice of war since the 1990s, the Persian Gulf War, the Kosovo
War, the War in Afghanistan, and the Iraq War, has shown that space information assisting support has become a
“multiplier” for boosting operational capability, and an important backing for gaining the battlefield initiative.

# I. Main activities of space information assisting support operations…150

Based on the differences in missions, space information assisting support operations mainly include 6 types of
activities: space R&S, space missile early warning, space communication relay, space navigation positioning, space
meteorological observation, and space geodetic surveying and mapping.

1. Space R&S

This signifies operational activities which employ space reconnaissance satellites and target surveillance systems to
carry out reconnaissance, surveillance, and tracking of all types of targets on the battlefield, so as to acquire
information on the enemy’s important operations. Since space R&S systems have characteristics such as high speed, broad
scope, few limitations (and no limitations from territorial air space or from geographic and weather conditions), full
content (both imagery and EM information can be reconnoitered), and either regular or continuous surveillance of the
same area, they are thus the main sources for strategic, campaign, and even tactical intelligence within operations
under informationized conditions. At present, $70 \%$ of the strategic intelligence of the world’s military powers comes
from space reconnaissance, while in the U.S. the proportion of all types of military intelligence provided by space
reconnaissance is as high as $90 \%$ or more. Space R&S mainly includes remote sensing reconnaissance and electronic
reconnaissance. Of these, [end of page 150] remote sensing reconnaissance is the use of satellite-mounted visible-light,
IR, and microwave remote sensing devices to carry out photography or observation of ground targets, so as to acquire
imagery intelligence; and electronic reconnaissance is the use of facilities equipment such as satellite-mounted radio receivers and antennas, for reconnaissance and interception of enemy radio/wireless signals, so
as to acquire EM intelligence.

2. Space missile early warning

This signifies operational activities which use the space missile early warning system to detect, find, and track the
launch and flight of missiles, so as to issue a missile incoming alert as early as possible and to forecast the
missile’s trajectory and landing point. Space missile early warning overcomes the drawbacks of ground early warning
radar in wartime, such as susceptibility to attack, short operating range, and short early warning time; and it is an
important component of a strategic defense system within operations under informationized conditions. During the Persian
Gulf War, the US military precisely via the early warning intelligence provided by use of its missile early warning
satellites was able to acquire the targets of Iraqi “Scud” missiles within 90-120 seconds after launch and ascertain
their impact areas, thus providing 4-5 minutes of early warning time, which ensured timely interception by “Patriot”
missiles.

# 3. Space communication relay

This signifies operational activities which employ communication satellites as “relay stations” for communications, to
provide information transmission and relay for a variety of fixed or mobile communication terminals. Compared to other
means of communication, space communication relay has a very clear superiority: the communication relay platforms are
situated in outer space, have a broad scope of coverage, and can overcome the influence of all terrain obstacles; the
communication frequency is high and the capacity high, enabling the communication needs of large numbers of users to be
simultaneously met; the communication bandwidth is broad, enabling spread spectrum communication, with good security and
jam resistance; the use of natural channels means excellent communication quality, with minimal influence by weather or
other natural conditions; and true multi-address communication with flexible networking, good network reconfigurability,
and high destruction resistance can be realized. Hence, space communication relay will become the foremost communication
relay mode in operations under informationized conditions.

# 4. Space navigation positioning

This signifies operational activities which use a space navigation positioning system to transmit navigation signals and
navigation messages, so as to provide all-weather, realtime precision navigation, positioning, and timing service for
the units and weapons systems of all services and arms, as well as for spacecraft operating in low Earth orbit [LEO].
Space navigation positioning has synthesized the merits of traditional astronomical navigation and ground radio
navigation, and has overcome their shortcomings: its positioning precision is high, enabling passive dynamic
positioning; the user space is large, so that the number of passive users in theory is unlimited; it can provide
all-weather, all-climate navigation positioning services; and it can provide realtime or [end of page 151]
near-real-time navigation positioning information. At present, the space navigation positioning systems operating around
the world mainly include America’s GPS System, Russia’s “GLONASS” [Global Navigation Satellite] System, Europe’s
“Galileo” System, and China’s “Beidou” (COMPASS) System. These will be the backbone of navigation positioning within
operations under future informationized conditions.

# 5. Space meteorological observation

This signifies operational activities which use satellite meteorological monitoring and forecasting systems to perform
meteorological observation of the earth’s surface from outer space. Meteorological satellites have characteristics such
as long observation time, a broad coverage zone, a short data compilation time, and high security and image resolution;
they can provide real-time meteorological intelligence over a global scope, and have an important role in supporting the
smooth conduct of various military activities. According to operating orbit, space meteorological observation systems
can be divided into the following: sun-synchronous-orbit [SSO] meteorological observation systems, which can perform two
meteorological observations of the same area every day and acquire global meteorological data; and geostationary-orbit
[GSO] meteorological observation systems, which can perform continuous meteorological observation of $2 5 \%$ of the
areas (zones) of the entire globe, and mainly provide services to high-tech weapons and equipment and operational
activities with stricter requirements on the meteorological environment.

# 6. Space geodetic surveying and mapping

This signifies operational activities which employ satellite surveying and mapping systems to perform surveying and
mapping of the earth’s gravity distribution, the earth’s magnetic field distribution, and the earth’s shape, as well as
geographic information on the earth’s surface. Geodetic surveying and mapping satellites have high operating orbits and
rapid speed, and in particular are not restricted by a nation’s territorial airspace or territorial waters. Thus, they
not only can provide geodetic information not obtainable by other means of surveying and mapping, but also have high
precision and a strong time effectiveness quality. All this is of the utmost importance in boosting the preciseness of
command and the hit precision of long-range ballistic missiles.

# II. Basic requirements for space information assisting support operations…152

In operations under informationized conditions, the position and role of space information assisting support operations
are extremely important and have determined that the confrontation centering on space information assisting support will
also be very sharp. When organizing and conducting space information assisting support operations, [commanders] must,
under the premise of reinforcing protection to ensure safety, synthetically apply a variety of space information
assisting support forces, and lay stress on the support key points, to provide forceful support $\{ zhi chi \}$ for all
fields — land, sea, air, and space.

1. Synthetic adjusting-coordination {zonghe xietiao}, with integrated-whole application

The space forces participating in space information assisting support operations come in numerous classes, but each
class of forces has its specific superiority and limitations. In order to fully bring into play the superiority of each
class of forces and make up for their limitations, [end of page 152] [commanders] must carry out synthetic
adjustingcoordination and realize integrated-whole application. So-called synthetic adjustingcoordination with
integrated-whole application means centering on a unified objective; synthetically applying space information assisting
support forces for R&S, missile early warning, communication relay, navigation positioning, meteorological observation,
and geodetic surveying and mapping; forming a good relationship for mutual assisting support, mutual enhancement, and
mutual complementation, with no conflict or friction; and thus achieving the optimal space information assisting support
effects. This is mainly embodied in two respects: on one hand, it means adjusting-coordination and complementation among
all space information assisting support forces. To give some examples, in the complementation between the R&S system and
the communication relay system, the raw observation data acquired by the R&S system can be transmitted over the
communication relay system in real-time to a ground information processing center, and the processing results then can
be swiftly transmitted over the communication relay system to all operational units $\{ dan wei \}$ , thus maximally
boosting the exploitation value of the acquired information; or in the complementation between the navigation
positioning system and the communication relay system, the navigation positioning system can be used to precisely fix
the geographic location of a ground communication terminal, thus boosting the communication quality of the communication
relay system; or in the complementation between the meteorological observation system and the R&S system, the
meteorological observation system can be used to timely grasp the meteorological situation in target areas (zones), thus
enabling selection of good meteorological conditions to conduct reconnaissance and boosting the R&S system’s
reconnaissance effects. On the other hand, there is the adjusting-coordination and complementation internal to all space information assisting support forces. For example, in the complementation between
the general survey type satellites and detailed survey type satellites internal to the R&S system, the general survey
type satellites will perform large-scope, low-precision posture observation, but once they detect a suspected target,
they will immediately provide the target vector to the detailed survey type satellites, to assist the latter in
performing high-precision identification of the target, and thus boost the utilization ratio of the reconnaissance
system; or, in the complementation between electronic reconnaissance satellites and photoreconnaissance satellites, the
electronic reconnaissance satellites can be employed over a vast sea zone to acquire EM signals from the enemy’s heavy
ships, roughly determine their locations, then vector the photoreconnaissance satellites in carrying out precision
positioning of the heavy ships, and thus provide information assisting support for the friendly side’s execution of
longrange precision strike.

2. Concentration of forces, for key point support

Due to the limitations of technological conditions and restrictions of economic real strength, for the foreseeable very
long time to come, the quantitative scale of space information assisting support forces will be unusually limited, but
the position and role of space information assisting support will grow ever more important, so that the contradiction
between the needs and requirements and the possibilities will be very prominent. If [commanders] adopt the mode of
casting a large-area net for decentralized use of the space information assisting support forces, they not only will be
unable to effectively bring into play the effectiveness of the existing forces, but also could generate disorder due to
a lack of stress on the support key points. To this end, they must concentrate use of limited space information
assisting support forces to provide key point support. So-called concentration of forces for key point support involves
unified planning and unified organizing for concentrating considerable-scale space [end of page 153] information
assisting support forces in the important operational phases, critical time segments, main direction, and key point
areas (zones), to provide powerful information support for the important objects, so as to ensure the success of the
operations. Concentration of forces not only requires emphasizing concentration in quantitative terms, but also
emphasizing the formation of qualitative superiority; and it not only requires ensuring concentration in a certain
space, but also requires taking care to realize concentration at a certain time. At the same time, concentration of
forces should uphold the principle of being “reasonable and sufficient;” this not only requires ensuring the needs and
requirements for fulfilling the missions, but also requires detailed calculations for precision strike, economizing on
use [of forces], and absolutely avoiding blind concentration. In key point support, the most important thing is to
capture the key points. Generally speaking, these mainly include the following: higher-level C2 centers, units which execute important operational missions, high-tech weapons platforms, and units situated in harsh environments and
unable to be supported by other information support forces. Of course, in different operational patterns or different
phases of operations, along with the changes in the battlefield situation and operational missions, the operational COG
will regularly undergo change, and thus will require that the key points in use of the space information assisting
support forces also should correspondingly be adjusted and transfer-shifted.

# 3. Rigorous protection, to ensure safety

In operations under informationized conditions, the prominent superiority of space information assisting support forces
in regard to information acquisition and transmission has made them become absolutely indispensable “operational
partners” for the land, sea, and air operational strengths in carrying out operational missions, and thus they are
certain to become the targets of key point strikes by the opposing sides. Moreover, along with the acceleration of the
course of space weaponization, various types of counterspace forces weapons are emerging in an endless stream, and this
also will sharply increase the threats faced by the space information assisting support forces. Once the space
information assisting support forces sustain severe damage, they will not be able to provide timely and effective
information assisting support; this will cause lethal strikes to the operational SoS increasingly based on networked
information systems and even lead to loss of operational capability in this SoS. Hence, reinforcing protection for space
information assisting support forces, to ensure their safe and stable operation, is a major problem which must be
closely heeded by space operations commanders and their command organs. When the space information assisting support
forces are carrying out operational missions, [commanders and their command organs] should apply a variety of technical
means to provide concealment and camouflage, enhance the orbital maneuverability of spacecraft, reinforce the defensive
strengths for the ground stations, and rigorously organize electronic defense, so as to boost the destruction-resistance
capability and survivability of space information systems and ensure the smooth conduct of the space information
assisting support operations, as well as an uninterrupted flow of space information assisting support and safeguarding
support.

# Questions for Deliberation…154

1. Which are the main patterns of space operations?

2. Which are the main activities of space strike operations? What are their basic requirements?

3. Which are the main activities of space information assisting support operations? What are their basic requirements?
[end of page 154; end of lecture]

This page intentionally left blank.

# Lecture 6 Command of Space Operations…155

Command of space operations is command by space operations commanders and their command organs over the space operations
activities of their subordinate units. According to the operational pattern, it is divided into command of space
deterrence operations, command of space blockade operations, command of space strike operations, command of space
defensive operations, and command of space information assisting support $\{ zhi yua n \}$ operations. According to
participating strengths, it is divided into command of space launch and recovery units, command of space telemetry,
tracking and control [TT&C] units, command of space flight combat units, command of strategic missile forces, command of
ground space defense units, and command of space service and support troops {qinwu baozhang budui}.11 According to the
weapons employed, it is divided into command of missile operations, command of spacecraft operations, and command of new
concept weaponry operations. According to the confrontation area (zone), it is divided into command of “space-to-space”
operations, command of “spaceto-ground” operations, command of “ground-to-space” operations, and so on. Command of space
operations mainly involves content such as the characteristics and laws of space operations, command principles, the
command system of systems [SoS] $\{ tix i \}$ , the command structure, command modes, command means, and command
activity {huodong}. Its basic missions are as follows: to analyze, study, and correctly assess the enemy space
operations situation, to rationally disposition the friendly space operational forces, to implement unified jihua
planning and organizing and control and adjustingcoordination of the space operations activities, and to flexibly apply
space operations fighting methods, so as to boost the integrated-whole effectiveness of the space operational SoS and
seize success in space operations. Whether command of space operations is correct directly influences the progress and
outcome of space operations activity. In-depth study of command of space operations can reveal the laws of command of
space operations, benefit the boosting of command effectiveness in space operations, and bring into play the major role
of space operational forces within joint operations.

# Section 1: Characteristics and Principles of Command of Space Operations…155

Command of space operations has its intrinsic characteristics and laws. By following the objective laws, command of
space operations can be highly effective. In-depth study of the correlated problems in command of space operations
requires first having a clear idea of the characteristics and laws of command of space operations, and correctly grasping the basic principles of command
of space operations. [end of page 155]

# I. Main characteristics of command of space operations…156

Space operations have a very strong special quality in many respects, such as weapons and equipment, the battlefield
environment, the task organization of strength, and the operational patterns. The result is that command of space
operations is clearly distinguished from command of other operations. Based on the actual application of space
operational forces in several recent local wars, as well as predictions of the development trends for future space
operations, command of space operations mainly assumes characteristics in the following 5 respects.

1. Space operations involve the strategic overall situation; the command decision-making level is high.

Along with the swift development of the militarization of space, the battlefield will expand from the land, sea, and air
further into space. Future wars are certain to be informationized wars with integration $\{ yit i \}$ of the land, sea,
air, space, and electromagnetic [EM] multidimensional battlefield, and space operations will be an important component
of future informationized wars. In space, space equipment serves as the space information platforms of modern war. This
equipment has the capabilities for real-time precision navigation positioning, high-resolution remote sensing imagery,
highprecision weather data, timely missile early warning, and reliable high-capacity communication. This has maximally
enhanced the “degree of transparency” of modern battlefields, and has expanded the “channels” for battlefield
information. The use of satellites to conduct reconnaissance, surveillance, communication, navigation, and early warning
will become the main operational support mode in joint operations. The highspeed operation of space weapons in space
orbits is not limited by national borders, territorial waters, or territorial airspace, and is not restricted by terrain
conditions and atmospheric environments; the degrees of freedom in operational activities thus have greatly increased,
and the battlefield scope and space are vast. The use of space operations platforms, employing lasers, kinetic energy
weapons [KEWs], and new concept weaponry and munitions to attack the adversary’s spacecraft from outer space, and attack
the adversary’s land, sea, and air targets, similarly will become an important operational mode. It is quite clear that
once the space battlefield falls, space assisting support xitong systems, space offensive systems, and space defensive
systems all will no longer play role. This can be compared to having lost eyes and ears and having lost space protective
shields; seizing information dominance, command of the air, and command of the sea similarly would become empty phrases,
and this would also mean loss of the initiative in war. Hence, space operations involve the strategic overall situation, and their position and role is very
important. The command decision-making levels must be raised in space operations, so that unified disposition and
unified command and control [C2] are from a high level, to ensure the smooth conduct of space operations according to
the intent of the Supreme Command and the correct direction.

2. High speed, rapid tempo, and short command cycle in space activities

One distinct characteristic of space operations distinguishing them from other battlefield operations is the high speed
of the operational activities, with a great acceleration of the operational tempo. On one hand, spacecraft and space
weapons operate with extremely high speed [end of page 156] and ultra-long range. For a spacecraft to move in circular
movement around the earth, become an artificial satellite within the solar system, and leave the solar system to enter
deep space, it must respectively achieve the First Cosmic Speed of $7 . 9 1 \mathrm { k m / s }$ , the Second Cosmic
Speed of $1 1 . 1 8 \mathrm { k m / s }$ , and the Third Cosmic Speed of $1 6 . 6 3 \mathrm { k m / s }$ ; i.e., it must
cover an operating distance of at least $4 0 0 \mathrm { k m } - 1 0 0 0$ km every minute. Space weapons and laser and
KEWs plus particle-beam weapons all operate at the speed of light and only need a time of 0.0014 second to strike a
target on the earth’s surface. Operations employing such a high speed and such a long range are actions which cannot be
compared with other battlefield operational activities. Added to this, the wide-ranging application of various types of
stealth technology and electronic warfare [EW] technology has greatly enhanced the element of surprise and the rapidity
in space operations. On the other hand, the wide-ranging application of advanced information acquisition, transmission,
and processing technology in the future space battlefield also will provide technical brace-support {zhicheng} for rapid
command of operations. During the Persian Gulf War, the full-course flight time of a “Scud” missile was only 7 minutes.
The US military applied early warning satellites with a disposition above the Indian Ocean to detect the launch flames
of these “Scud” missiles of the Iraqi military and then automatically transmit the relevant data to a US Air Force
[USAF] ground station situated in Australia. This ground station then used a communication satellite to transmit the
data to the command center of the North American Air Defense Command [NORAD] situated in the US homeland; the command
center then performed processing of the data and rapidly transmitted the processing results to the Central Command
[CENTCOM] command center situated in Riyadh and to the “Patriot” Air Defense Missile Center. The air defense missile
center timely and accurately commanded and vectored the “Patriot” missiles in realizing interception and destruction of
the “Scuds,” with the entire process not exceeding 5 minutes, so that command was implemented under near-real-time
circumstances. Practice has demonstrated that command of space operations requires energetically shortening the command
cycle. To this end, only when space operations commanders and their command organs fully apply a variety of command
means to timely detect the enemy situation, rapidly assess it, make rapid decisions, complete the planning and
organizing work before the enemy does, and greatly boost the organizing and command effectiveness and the rapid reaction
capability, can they adapt to the needs and requirements of space operations.

3. Multidimensionality {duoyuan} of space operational forces, making command coordination very complex

In local war under informationized conditions, in order to gain success in space operations, and thus gain space
dominance, both opposing sides will use all their forces and try all possible methods to participate in space
operations. Space operations assume the important characteristic of multidimensionality in the participating strengths,
and this makes the content of command coordination in space operations wide-ranging and the missions strenuous. First is
the internal coordination of space operations. Generally speaking, space operations mainly are an integrated whole
composed of numerous activities, such as reconnaissance and surveillance [R&S], communication relay, C2, firepower and
information attack, and service and technical support. Within this integrated-whole structure, a small mistake in any
single operational activity always could lead to failure of the entire course of operations. [end of page 157] Next is
the coordination between space operational activities and other operational activities. This type of coordination not
only includes the information and fire assisting support provided by the space operational forces for the land, sea, and
air operational strengths, to assist in seizing information dominance, command of the sea, and command of the air, as
well as executing continuous strikes against war potential targets in the enemy depth, but also includes the information
and fire assisting support provided by the land, sea, and air operational strengths to the space operational forces, to
assist in seizing and maintaining space dominance; and it not only includes hard destruction, but also includes soft
kill. Finally, there is the coordination between the space operational activities and civilian space activity. Along
with the constant growth in China’s economic and science and technology [S&T] real strength, the participation by
civilian forces in space activity may grow ever greater and broader. During space operations, civilian forces also will
be an important participating strength. Operational coordination not only includes the information and means assisting
support provided by civilian space activity for space operational activities, such as the urgent and backup information
assisting support provided to the armed forces by communication satellites, meteorological satellites, and maritime
satellites; it also includes the protection provided by space operational activities to civilian space activity. Hence,
space operational coordination is very complex, and objective situations will levy pressing needs and requirements to
adopt a variety of measures and methods. In particular, this means fully applying advanced command information systems,
to reinforce the timeliness and accuracy of command coordination in space operations, and to ensure the consistent
adjusting-coordination of space operational activities.

4. Advanced means of space engagement, making for sharpness in command warfare

Due to the wide-ranging application of space technology and information technology [IT], space weapons and equipment
will constantly see new breakthroughs. This will provide even more choices for directly attacking the adversary’s
command institutions and command information systems, and achieving the goal of subduing the enemy troops with minimal
use of friendly troops. On one hand, the reconnaissance means are advanced, so that command institutions are extremely
easily positioned by reconnaissance. Today, [commanders] not only can employ electronic reconnaissance satellites to
conduct full-spectrum, full-dimensional {quanfangwei}, full-depth surveillance, monitoring, and positioning of the
enemy’s C2 systems; they also can exploit a variety of imaging satellites to conduct all-around, careful reconnaissance
of the entire battlefield. For example, satellite-borne synthetic aperture radar [SAR] has a certain penetration ability
and can detect command institutions concealed underground; and multispectral imaging reconnaissance has a certain
capability for revealing camouflage and can detect installations and personnel concealed in the woods. This type of
superstrong battlefield reconnaissance capability makes concealment of command institutions and command installations
very difficult. On the other hand, space weapons are not subject to any political, geographic, or weather limitations,
and have characteristics such as rapid firing speed, high precision, and high yield; they can at extremely high speeds
penetrate into the enemy’s far reaching rear areas, and in regard to severe threats posed by enemy command institutions
situated in the strategic and campaign depth, they not only can carry out hard destruction of them, but also can carry
out soft kill of them. Hence, the opposing sides’ struggle centering on reconnaissance versus counter-reconnaissance of
command institutions, and the corresponding strike versus protection, will grow increasingly sharp. [end of page 158]

5. Strangeness of the space battlefield field {lingyu}, with stringent requirements on command quality

In terms of most commanders and their command organs in armed forces around the world, due to their long involvement and
operations in the land, sea, and air battlefield fields, they are unusually familiar with the land, sea, and air
battlefield fields; but their understanding of the space environment, space technology, spacecraft, and space weapons
and equipment is not good, and their grasp of these even less. Added to this is that a small error can lead to a miss by
a thousand miles, so it is very difficult to realize skillful command. Concretely speaking, in technological terms,
space technology mainly includes spacecraft technology, spacecraft delivery technology, spacecraft launch technology,
spacecraft TT&C technology, and manned space technology; and each of these technologies also includes a good many
specific technologies and tenets. All of this content is the quintessence of current high-tech fields, so general
personnel cannot learn and grasp it within a short time. In terms of the content of space command, due to the
differences in the objects of command, the command means, and the command modes, the space command procedures and
command methods thus show fairly great differences from command of other battlefield operations. For example, the space
battlefield is vast and boundless, so how is early warning surveillance of all space targets to be conducted; or how is
C2 to be implemented for spacecraft and space weapons after they reach outer space; or how is rapid reaction to be
realized for space weapons as heavy as tens of tons or as small as a particle beam? These special situations raise
all-new challenges in terms of commanders and their command organs without practice in space operations. In
international law respects, the UN to date has formulated a good many international space laws. These mainly include the
following: several conventions — the Outer Space Treaty (1967), the Rescue Agreement (1968), the Liability Convention
(1972), and the Registration Convention (1976) — plus a certain number of principles and declarations, such as the
Declaration on Outer Space (1963) and the Principles Governing the Use by States of Artificial Earth Satellites for
International Direct Television Broadcasting (1982). These conventions, principles, and declarations not only must be
thoroughly known and understood, but even more importantly require skill in one’s use of them, to avoid during space
operations the triggering of disputes between the UN or nonparticipating states and the friendly side, and even the
unfavorable situation of the opening of hostilities against the friendly side. Evidently, due to the strangeness of the
field and the lack of practice in it, the capability and quality of commanders and their command organs in subjective
terms universally exhibit fairly big gaps from the objective needs and requirements of space operations. To this end,
multiple measures must be adopted to reinforce studies on command of space operations; explore content, procedures, and
methods conforming to the command of space operations having [our] own characteristics; and reinforce cultivation and
training and drills, in order to as rapidly as possible boost the integrated-whole quality of the personnel in command
of space operations.

# II. Basic principles of command of space operations…159

The principles of command of space operations are the criteria which must be followed by space operations commanders and
their command organs [end of page 159] when carrying out command activity. They are the concrete embodiment of the
operational command laws within space operations command activity. By implementing command of space operations according
to these principles, [commanders and their command organs] can boost command efficiency, reduce shortsightedness, and
avoid making major mistakes.

1. Full-zone monitoring, with foresight in good time

This principle signifies, during command activity for organizing and conducting space operations, a real-time grasp of
the battlefield postures in space, the air zones, the sea zones, and the land zones; detecting the enemy first; and
swiftly making the correct forecast, so as to lay a firm foundation for ultimately determining decision-making which
conforms to battlefield realities. Full-zone monitoring means the need to employ a variety of technologies and special
reconnaissance means for a comprehensive, accurate, realtime grasp of information on the entire battlefield in all
respects, including the enemy, our side, and friendly neighbors, as well as the battlefield’s natural environment, with
space as primary, and with the correlated air zones, sea zones, and land zones as auxiliary. This mainly includes static
information, such as the enemy’s space operations thought, operational characteristics, operational intention, personnel
quality, and weapons and equipment performance; the enemy’s main spacecraft launch positions and space energy and
equipment production bases; the orbital locations and operational uses of the enemy’s in-orbit spacecraft in peacetime;
and the integrated-whole levels of the enemy’s space S&T — as well as fairly rapidly changing information, such as the
enemy’s current space operational disposition and main operational direction, newly committed space force-strength and
weapons, and operational loss situation. During monitoring, [commanders and their command organs] must use multiple
reconnaissance means in parallel, mutually confirm all acquired information, discard the dross and reject the false, and
thus boost the accuracy and continuity of battlefield information. Foresight in good time means that on the basis of
effectively obtaining space battlefield information, they will apply the method of a mutual combination of the
quantitative and the qualitative to rapidly synthesize, compare, and analyze the battlefield information; clearly state
the respective superiorities and inferiorities of the enemy and friendly sides, plus the favorable and unfavorable
conditions; see any potential threats, and in good time foresee the operational development trends and favorable timing
for operations; and make correct decisions which conform to reality, so as to realize unification of the subjective and
objective in the understanding of space operations.

2. Scientific decision-making, with rapid reaction

This principle is a basic requirement for commanders in setting the operational resolution. Within it, rapid reaction
also is a basic requirement for command organs in their activity on collecting the situation [information], planning and
organizing, and control and adjusting-coordination. All of these are prerequisites and critical factors in ensuring
success in operations. Command of future space operations will be faced with ever more complex situations; the
battlespace will be unprecedentedly expanded, weapons and equipment will be highly informationized, the operational
missions will be interwoven in fulfillment, the information quantity will sharply rise, the course of operations will
accelerate, and operational support will be abnormally complex—all leading to ever shorter command cycles, and great
increases in the degree of difficulty in command control and adjusting-coordination. These factors have raised severe
challenges to operational decision-making. Hence, only relying on the command experience of individuals, and adopting
simple, direct, qualitative decision methods to form the operational resolution, are by far no longer able to adapt to
[end of page 160] the needs and requirements of command of future space operations. Taking scientific decisionmaking
theory as the foundation, [commanders and their command organs] must grasp scientific methodology, apply high- and
new-tech means, and focus on the strategic overall situation and the integrated whole of space operations, in order to
ensure the accuracy, real-time quality, and effectiveness of the space operational resolution. During decision-making,
it is not only necessary to uphold the core role of the commanders, but is also necessary to fully bring into play the
brain-trust role of the staff personnel and relevant experts, combine “collective working-out-an-approach in planning”
with “decision by the main officers,” achieve collective wisdom and effort, and thus boost decision quality. [Commanders
and command organs] not only must lay stress on qualitative analysis in theory, but also must excel at applying
mathematical methods to perform quantitative analysis, combine the two analysis methods, and select resolution courses
of action [COAs] strictly according to scientific decision procedures. They must fully exploit advanced IT and tightly
combine staff personnel and technical personnel with technical facilities equipment based on high-performance computers,
to compose a man-machine-integrated interactive intelligent computer-aided [decision-making] system, for meticulous
design of operational COAs, and for seeking sound strategies to subdue the enemy. At the same time, along with the swift
development of high and new technologies, especially IT, and their wide-ranging application in the military field, the
role of operational command speed in future war will be more prominent than at any time in the past. Today, military
powers around the world attach high importance to boosting operational command speed. Specifically, the US military has
put forth the “Observe – Orient – Decide – Act” operational command cycle theory (i.e., the “OODA Loop” theory). This
theory holds that during operations, if one side has shortened its own operational command cycle, and launches
activities before the enemy has mounted a reaction to that side’s previous activities, then the enemy very rapidly may
fall into disorder due to being too busy to handle all matters; and even if the enemy’s real strength is substantial,
that side will still be able to avoid the misfortune of being in a passive situation and taking a beating, or even the
misfortune of a crushing defeat. In the future, space operations will be faced with expanded operational spaces and
compressed operational times, operational platforms moving at high speeds, and operational patterns with frequent transitions;
these have put forth even stricter requirements on rapid reaction in the command of space operations. Hence, [commanders
and their command organs] must focus on the future, approach [the problem] from a variety of standpoints — intelligent
functioning in command decision-making, simplification of command procedures, flexible adoption of command modes, and
real-time flow of command support — and exert effort toward boosting the rapid reaction capability in command of space
operations.

3. Unified command, with key point control

Unified command is a basic principle of operational command to which strategists in ancient and modern times both in
China and abroad have attached high importance. Its fundamental goal lies in implementing unified command in order to
achieve unified thought, unified planning, and unified activities, so as to boost the integrated-whole effectiveness of
operations. Within future space operations, space operational forces will be distributed very widely, with forces
dispositioned on the land, at sea, in the air, and in space; moreover, their mutual spacing will usually be quite far,
making coordinated activities difficult. Space technology is very complex, and a problem occurring in any one link —
early warning, launch, or TT&C — always can lead to situations where space operations cannot perform measurements, [end
of page 161] cannot realize interception, or cannot carry out destruction. Added to this, space operations often will
not be present in isolation and usually will accompany land, naval, and air operations. If C2 is not properly
implemented, it could lead to a scene of utter disorder in land, sea, air, and space operations, and even could cause
major losses to the friendly side. Space resources belong to the common resources of all humankind, and all nations
around the world are entitled to start out from the goal of peaceful use of space, launch a variety of spacecraft into
space, and freely operate them in various orbits. In the future, more and more spacecraft will be launched into space by
many nations, no matter whether they are space powers or ordinary states. If space operations are not meticulously
organized and precisely calculated, they very likely could harm other nations’ spacecraft and set off a war between
these nations. To this end, in order to fully bring into play the role of the limited space operational forces,
[commanders and their command organs] must firmly implement centralized command, unified operations-research-based
planning, and unified organizing, and to the maximum extent form integrated-whole composite strength. This will be
important support for gaining success in future space operations. At the same time, the space battlefield is vast, and
involves all kinds of factors. In particular, space operations are fast changing, so conducting all-around surveillance
and all-around control of all targets in all phases and all time segments is not only unnecessary, but also impossible.
To this end, [commanders and their command organs] must lay stress on the key points, and in particular conduct
full-course surveillance of the important phases and important time segments, and key point strikes at the important
targets. For the other phases, the other time segments, and the other targets, based on the unified operations plan and
the detailed operational specifications, they can delegate authority and implement decentralized control. In particular,
for various types of outbreak situations, they all the more should implement decentralized control to seize the
initiative in space operations.

4. Total effort on support, for stability and continuity

Command of space operations cannot do without all-around and careful command support. If command support is forceful,
command of space operations can then be stable and continuous, and also can then create good prerequisite conditions for
seizing success in space operations. [Commanders and their command organs] need to unify the organizing of the various
forces, to properly conduct reconnaissance intelligence, early warning and detection, targeting, communication,
cryptographic, surveying and mapping and navigation, meteorological, and operational data support. In particular, they
must focus on the needs and requirements for commanding space operations and on the characteristics and difficult points
of command support, work hard to achieve real-time monitoring of the space environment and space targets, and realize
uninterrupted flow of space communication, as well as stable and high-efficiency operation of the command information
system. They also must earnestly provide good protection for command of space operations. In view of the situation where
the space operations command institutions and command information system are the most important objectives of enemy
destruction and sabotage, [commanders and their command organs] must in a directed [focused] manner adopt a variety of
protective measures. For example, when formulating plans for resistance operations, they not only need to consider
resisting the enemy’s space attacks, but also need to consider resisting enemy attacks on land, at sea, and in the air;
and they not only need to consider defense of ground command institutions, but also need to consider defense of future
space command institutions (such as space command posts set up in medium- and large-scale space stations), and thus
rationally disposition [end of page 162] multiple forces — land, sea, air, and space — to form an effective resistance
capability against all incoming targets. They should also synthetically consider multiple factors for protective
measures and take care to see that they complement the resistance measures; carry out general operations-research-based
planning from the standpoints of counter-reconnaissance, counter-jamming, and counter-fire strike; and perform the
necessary engineering work, including construction, hardening, and camouflage. In particular, they should set up several
anti-laser-guidance and counter-IR-reconnaissance measurement devices such as smoke screens, water sprayers, and
false-IR sources, and mutually combine them with other deception means as well as means of command concealment, to constitute a “shield” which can effectively ensure the security of the friendly space operations command
institutions. When organizing command communication support, they should perform forecasts and analyses of the missions
undertaken by space operations command institutions at all levels and of situations which can be encountered when signal
communication is jammed and sabotaged by the enemy; study and formulate handling COAs for different special situations;
lay stress on the key points and rationally deploy communication facilities equipment and technical strengths; and adopt
multiple effective means to construct multipath bypassing communication circuits, to ensure the smooth and unblocked
flow of signal communication among all command institutions on the ground and in space, and between the command
institutions and the units.

# Section 2: The Command SoS for Space Operations…163

The command SoS for space operations signifies the organic integrated whole of all levels and all types of space
operations command institutions, according to the composition of command relationships. It is an important foundation on
which all levels of commanders and their command organs implement organized command of the space operations activities
of their subordinate units. A scientific and rational command SoS for space operations enables shortening of the command
flow path and is beneficial to command coordination and to boosting of command efficiency.

# I. Basic requirements for constructing the command SoS for space operations…163

Construction of the command SoS for space operations has its own special requirements. [Commanders and their command
organs] must abide by the characteristics and laws of space operations, adapt to the general requirements of the
operational command SoS, and bring them into the command SoS for joint operations, for synchronous building and
perfection of the space operational forces.

1. Abiding by the laws of command of space operations

Command of space operations, besides abiding by general operational characteristics and laws, also should be organized
and implemented according to the unique characteristics and requirements of space operations. First is [a need] to abide
by the laws of high-level command. In space operations, unlike other operations, the participating strengths mostly are
strategic forces, and the operational objectives mostly are enemy strategic targets; moreover, the success or failure of
operations will have a bearing on success or failure in other battlefield operations and even on victory or defeat in an
entire war. Hence, command of space operations must be by the Supreme Command or by a theater’s joint operations
commander [JOC] and his [end of page 163] command organs and must conscientiously realize unified command according to
the supreme commander’s intent; it cannot permit the least bit of error. Next is [the need] to abide by the laws of
precision and high efficiency. Due to the universal application of IT, the informationized degree of all spacecraft,
weapons and equipment, and ground launch and TT&C installations and facilities equipment within space operations is
growing ever higher, and the capabilities for precision control and long-range strike have greatly improved. For
operations under informationized conditions, this causes an acceleration of the tempo, greater preciseness, and
unprecedented increases in operational efficiency. Given the pressing needs and requirements of real situations, the
command SoS for space operations must be streamlined and smooth, in order to realize precision and high efficiency in
command. Third is [the need] to abide by the laws of integrated linkage {yiti liandong}. The wideranging application of
IT enables a variety of operational strengths to be employed in parallel, and enables the operational effectiveness of
various types of weapons to be interlinked, so that operational capabilities are accumulated and released within a short
time, thus leading to great increases in operational efficiency and acceleration of the course of operations. This
feature has increased the degree of difficulty in command of space operations, and in particular has increased the
degree of difficulty in scheduling of space operational forces, adjusting of operational objectives, and
adjusting-coordinating of operational activities. This in turn has put forth requirements, unprecedented in history, on
command of space operations with integrated linkage.

2. Bringing [the space operational forces] into the Joint Operations Command SoS

Space operational forces are a new type of operational strength and one whose position and role is very important. They
must be brought into the joint operations SoS, and their command SoS similarly must be brought into the Joint Operations
Command SoS. First of all are the needs and requirements for centralized unified command. Centralized unified command is
a military rule particularly stressed by strategists in ancient and modern days both in China and abroad and one which
has been repeatedly proven in military practice. It requires that all operational strengths must be under unified
command by one commander and his command organ. In local war under informationized conditions, the classes of
operational strengths are more numerous, which similarly requires abiding by the principle of centralized unified
command. Space operational forces serve as an important component of the joint operational forces; they not only can be
independently employed, but also can be employed as complementation to other forces. While concentrating the space
operational forces to seize space dominance, [their commanders and command organs must] coordinate with other forces
seizing information dominance, command of the sea, and command of the air, and inflict heavy strikes on the enemy’s
effective strength, to seize victory in campaign combat. Objective reality requires that the command SoS in space operations must be brought into the Joint Operations Command SoS and come under
unified command by the JOC and his command organ. Otherwise, it could result in [situations where] each department acts
on its own, and too many heads issue commands; the units thus could not know what course to take, their operational
effectiveness would be lower, and they could even be disorganized and defeated in battle. Next are the needs and
requirements for interconnection and intercommunication in the command information system. The space operational forces
and other operational strengths are not mutually isolated or mutually unconnected; instead, they are mutually
supplementary and mutually promoting, with natural close ties between them. During operations, the other operational
activities and the space operations activities will all need mutual assisting support and close complementation.
Objective reality requires that the command information system for space operations and the command information system
for other operational activities [end of page 164] are interconnected and interoperable, even to the point where the
needs, activities planning, and activities results of the space operational forces and of the other operational
strengths can be timely transmitted from one side to another and mutually exploited, to jointly boost the operational
effects of an entire campaign. Third are the needs and requirements for boosting the benefits of building. Although the
space operations command SoS has its special quality, nonetheless in overall terms it belongs like other command SoS’s
to the operational command SoS’s, and they all have common characteristics and laws to be observed. On one hand, all
operational command SoS’s must be treated as one integrated whole, with unified operations-research-based planning done
by one institution, which will concentrate manpower, material resources, and financial resources; carry out unified
building; lay stress on the key points; and invest the limited funds in the most urgently needed and most important
building, to guard against causing unnecessary waste of materiel. At the same time, this can ensure that all command
SoS’s have the same form and the same xitong system, and ensure their mutual interconnection and intercommunication, to
constitute one organic integrated whole. On the other hand, under the premise of unified building, [commanders and their
command organs] also must appropriately give consideration to the special quality of the space operations command SoS,
and guard against always following the same pattern, to boost the directed [focused] quality and practicality of command
of space operations.

3. Adapting to the general requirements of operational command

The command SoS for space operations serves as one type of operational command SoS. Compared to the Joint Operations
Command SoS and the service operations command SoS, it has a similar task organization and organizational grouping,
performs similar functions, brings into play similar functions, and similarly also must conform to the requirements of
general command SoS’s.

The requirement for centralized unified command: “Centralized unified [command] is a basic requirement for operational
command in terms of the principle of the goal-driven quality of war and of composite strength to gain victory, and was a
basic principle of operational command in ancient times.”12 The space operational forces are very numerous, but mainly
include space launch units, space TT&C units, space early warning units, space offensive operations units, and space
defensive operations units. In order to have these forces form composite strength, [commanders and their command organs]
must have scientific and rational command institutions, implement centralized unified organizing and command over them,
and thus establish unified command authority with a high degree of authoritativeness. They must employ unified
operational thought, operational objectives, and operational planning, to unify the activities of all these space units.

The requirement for layer-by-layer command: “The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few
men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.”13 The meaning here is that if one wants to properly manage
armed forces numerous in numbers of men, just as if one wants to properly manage armed forces few in number of men, one
must organize them well. The specific method is to partition the armed forces into a certain number of components and
implement level-by-level and section-by-section management. Speaking from the standpoint of management science,
management exhibits spans. Under present technical conditions, [end of page 165] when the objects of management are in
the range of 5-10, [the span] is relatively rational; but when this number exceeds 10, management institutions often may
not be able to withstand the heavy burden, so that the phenomenon of a decline in management efficiency is seen. Today,
space operational forces are undergoing full-speed development, their scale is constantly expanding, the equipment comes
in many types and varieties, and the scope of disposition and spaces employed are constantly being extended; moreover,
the functions not only include tactical and campaign functions, but also strategic ones. Thus, layer-by-layer command
must be implemented over this type of operational strength, with mutual supplementation and mutual linkup among the
layers. In reality, this then has formed a command SoS for space operations.

The requirement for sustained stability: command which is unstable or interrupted will cause loss of contact with the
units, and the resultant outcome naturally will be a collapse without even going into battle. Along with the development
of modern reconnaissance technology and the application of precision strike weapons, and in particular the rise of
information warfare [IW], command systems, acting as the armed forces’ operational nerve centers, have become the main targets of reconnaissance, jamming, strike, and destruction by the enemy, so the
stable, uninterrupted flow of command has been gravely challenged. Once the space operations command SoS is established,
it must be kept relatively stable for a fairly long time, so that commanders at all levels [can] implement sustained,
uninterrupted organizing and command of space operations. Here, what are needed are outstanding commanders and staff
personnel; a command information system with perfected functions; a full set of operating procedures, content, methods,
and a zhidu system for command of space operations; and a set of effective concealment and protection measures, so that
there is a reliable assurance of sustained, stable operation of the command SoS for space operations. This command SoS
not only cannot be weakened due to adjustments and changes of command personnel, but also cannot lead to disorder in the
entire SoS, or even loss of its role, caused by a certain command institutions being jammed, sabotaged, or destroyed by
the enemy.

The requirement for agility with high efficiency: agility with high efficiency has always been an important principle of
operational command and also is an important requirement for an operational command SoS. Along with the high-speed
development of space technology and IT and their wide-ranging application in the military, modern operations take on the
trends of faster tempo and higher efficiency. Hence, in order to adapt to the development of circumstances, the space
operations command SoS, like other command SoS’s, also must abide by the requirement for agility with high efficiency.
On one hand, the establishment of the space operations command SoS, and in particular the space operations command
institutions at all levels, should be further optimized, so that the collection, processing, dissemination, and
transmission of various types of information are even more rational and scientific, and even faster; but on the other
hand, the establishment of the space operations command SoS, based on the situation of increasing advances in command
information systems, as well as the requirement for command of space operations to be ever rapider, should be further
simplified, develop in the direction of flattening, i.e., an increase in the objects of command laterally, with fewer
command levels longitudinally.

# II. Constructing a model for the space operations command SoS…166

Today, the US military has specialized space operations units and space operations command institutions; moreover, [end
of page 166] it has formed a relatively perfected space operations command SoS, with the armed forces of other nations
worldwide still basically in an exploratory phase [for establishing such a command SoS]. Based on the possible
situations in future space operations, combined with the situation of construction of space operations command SoS’s by
foreign militaries and in particular the US military, and synthesizing the relevant situation of domestic and foreign
theoretical studies, future space operations command SoS’s will involve two construction models: a model in which the space
operations command institution is merged with the Supreme Command and a model in which the space operations command
institutions are independent of the Supreme Command.

1. Model in which the space operations command institution is merged with the Supreme Command

Restricted by factors such as progress in political democracy, economic globalization, mutual balance of military
forces, the speed of media propagation, and the common people’s pursuit of happiness, future war will undergo major
changes: the number of wars will be fewer and fewer, the scale of forces will be smaller and smaller, and the joint
activities will be relatively greater in proportion. These development trends inevitably will require the operational
command SoS to be further joint, flatter, multifunctional, and smaller in scale. The specific changes very likely will
include transformation of the service operational commands $\{ zhi hui b u \}$ and special-project operational commands,
with their merging into the Supreme Command, so that the Supreme Command becomes a true Joint Operations Command for all
services and arms, and has supreme authority over all types of operational command PLA-wide; and transformation of the
theater service operational commands, with their merging into theater joint operations commands, so that the theater
joint operations commands have supreme authority over all types of operational command in the root theater. Command of
space operations, from the strategic-level viewpoint, may — following upon the departments for land command, sea
command, and air command — become a new department in the Supreme Command’s C2 center, and be an important component of
the Supreme Command. From a campaign-level viewpoint, command of space operations also may— following upon the
departments for land command, sea command, and air command—become a new department in the C2 center of the theater joint
operations command and be an important component of the theater joint operations command. Hence, in overall terms this
involves constructing a 3-level Joint Operations Command SoS: “a Supreme Command space operations command department –
the space operations command department of each theater joint operations command – the command institutions of the space
operations units.” In this 3-level SoS, the Supreme Command space operations command department will be responsible for
strategic command of space operations, and will guide each theater joint operations command’s space operations command
department in organizing space campaign operations and space assisting support operations; each theater joint operations
command’s space operations command department will be responsible for campaign command in space operations and for space
assisting support operations; and the space operations units’ command institutions will be responsible for command of
the operational activities of the root-level subordinate units.

2. Model in which space operations command institutions are independent of the Supreme Command

When the space forces are relatively large and their operational capability fairly strong, there is also the possibility
to establish a specialized Space Joint Operations Command, an Air and Space Operations Command, and/or a “Space Corps”
{tianjun} Operational Command. Relatively speaking, the Air and Space Operations Command is a united command for space
and air operations; its essence [end of page 167] is the same as that of the “Space Corps” Operational Command, and it
belongs to the service operational commands. Since the future will see even greater emphasis on joint operations
command, the possibility of its establishment is fairly low. The specialized Space Joint Operations Command, then, will
be a command bearing a joint nature; compared to the Air and Space Operations Command and the “Space Corps” Operations
Command, it will have a greater possibility of establishment. The specialized Space Joint Operations Command is under
the leadership of the Supreme Command, and is specially tasked with space operations command. Under it are the space
operations command departments of the theater joint operations commands, hence forming a 4-level command SoS: “the
Supreme Command – the Space Joint Operations Command – the space operations command departments of the theater joint
operations commands – the command institutions of the space operational units.”

The space operations command department serves as an important department of the Supreme Command, and compared to the
specialized Space Joint Operations Command, it can fully rely on the functions of the modern command information system
and has simple and clear hierarchy and smooth relationships. These facilitate operational coordination among the space
operational forces and between the space operational forces and other operational strengths, and can to the maximum
extent bring into play the command effectiveness of integrated joint operations and the strategic role of the space
operational forces. From the long-term viewpoint, this is an unusually ideal command SoS model; but from the short-term
viewpoint, it exhibits weak points such as being detrimental to the space operational forces’ special-project building
and rapid development, and placing overly heavy strategic command missions on the Supreme Command. By contrast, the
specialized Space Joint Operations Command is convenient to the building and development of the space operational
forces, is beneficial to operational coordination among the space operational forces, and can to the maximum extent
bring into play the strategic role of the space operational forces; however, it too shows weak points such as an
increase in the command levels and disadvantages in the coordination between the space operational forces and the other
operational strengths.

# III. Task organization and organizational grouping of space operations command institutions…168

Based on the above two construction models for the space operations command SoS, the space operations command
institutions may carry out the corresponding task organization and organizational grouping, to meet the needs and
requirements of command of future space operations. When command of space operations serves as an important department
in a joint operations command institution, the task organization and organizational grouping of the space operations
command institutions will be fixed by observing the task organization and organizational grouping of the Supreme Command
and of each theater joint operations command. When establishing a specialized Space Operations Command [SOC], the task
organization and organizational grouping of the space operations command institutions may involve establishing a basic
command post [CP], a reserve CP, and a rear CP.

1. Organizational grouping of a space operations command department

A future space operations command department will be determined mainly based on the task organization and organizational
grouping of the attached joint operations commands.

When a joint operations command establishes a basic CP, reserve CP, and rear CP, [end of page 168] command of space
operations will respectively serve as an important department of the joint operations command’s basic CP, reserve CP,
and rear CP. Below this department, the specific organizational grouping will include positions for planning and
adjusting-coordination, space attack, space defense, and space information operations [IO]. The department’s main duties
are as follows: to achieve an all-around grasp of the space operations situation, and put forth decision recommendations
for strategic and theater space operations; to organize and formulate the space operations plan, and participate in
formulating space information assisting support plans; and to organize and supervise-guide space operational activities
and space logistics and equipment support activities, and adjust-coordinate the space operations units’ participation in
other operational activities.

2. Task organization and organizational grouping of an SOC

The task organization and organizational grouping of a future SOC will be set based on the specific situation of the
needs and requirements for carrying out space operational missions, the task organization of space operational forces,
and the environment and conditions permitted by command. From the viewpoint of task organization, the task organization
can include an SOC basic CP, an SOC reserve CP, and an SOC rear CP.

# (1) Organizational grouping of the SOC basic CP

The SOC basic CP by and large can be organizationally grouped into a space operations command center and departments for
intelligence, communication, military affairs, political work, logistics support, and equipment support. This CP will
usually be composed of a space operations commander, a chief of staff, and relevant department personnel from a
headquarters [HQ] organ, as well as correlated department personnel transferred from other organs.

The space operations command center is the core of the space operations basic CP. Based on needs and requirements, this
center by and large can set up departments or positions for operational planning, duty-shift control, and planning
control support. The center’s main duties are as follows: to achieve all-around grasp of space operational situation
information and put forth the related reports and recommendations; to draft and transmit space operational orders and
instructions; to draft space operations general plans and subplans; to assume examinational work for space logistics
support planning, equipment support planning, and lower-level operations planning; along with related departments, to
organize forecast and evaluation of space operations effects; and to organize and guide the space operational support
activities.

The space operations intelligence department can set up reconnaissance command, intelligence collection, and
intelligence analysis positions. Its main duties are as follows: to put forth space reconnaissance intelligence support
recommendations; to draft space reconnaissance intelligence support plans and instructions; to organize space
reconnaissance intelligence support activities, and guide and adjust-coordinate the related activities of other
reconnaissance intelligence strengths; to grasp, reorganize, and evaluate space intelligence information, report and
release intelligence information, and provide intelligence sharing service; and to assist the space operations command
center in organizing space counter-reconnaissance, and forecast and evaluation of space operational effects.

The space operations communication department can set up planning and adjustingcoordination, communication support, and
command information system [end of page 169] support positions. Its main duties are as follows: to put forth space
communication support and command information system support recommendations; to draft space communication support and
command information system support plans and instructions, and assume examinational work for the lower-level related
space communication support plans; to organize space communication and command information system support activities,
and guide and adjust-coordinate the related activities of other communication and command information system support
strengths; and to organize and adjustcoordinate space information system protection.

The space operations military affairs department can set up planning and adjustingcoordination, military manpower work,
resources mobilization, and space battlefield control positions. Its main duties are as follows: to put forth space
military affairs, mobilization, and space battlefield control work recommendations; to draft plans and orders or space
operational unit augmentation and military manpower mobilization; and to organize space battlefield control.

The space operations political work department can set up organizational work, cadre work, propaganda and public
opinion, and security and discipline inspection positions. Its main duties are as follows: to put forth space operations
political work recommendations; to draft space operations political work plans and instructions; to organize political
mobilization, agitprop, and news release and control; to assume Party and [Communist Youth] League work in organizing,
adjustment, and replenishment of cadres; and to adjust-coordinate and launch space public opinion warfare, psychological
warfare [PSYWAR/PSYOP], and legal warfare.

The space operations logistics support department can set up planning and adjustingcoordination, finance, medical, and
materiel and fuel positions. Its main duties are as follows: to put forth space operations logistics support reports and
recommendations; to draft space operations logistics support plans, issue support instructions, and organize and conduct
space operations logistics support activities; and to coordinate with relevant departments in organizing space
operations logistics mobilization and defense.

The space operations equipment support department can set up planning and adjustingcoordination, equipment support, and
technical support positions. Its main duties are as follows: to put forth space operations equipment support reports and
recommendations; to draft space operations equipment support plans, issue support instructions, and organize and conduct
space operations equipment support activities; and to coordinate with relevant departments in organizing space
operations equipment mobilization and defense.

# (2) Organizational grouping of the SOC reserve CP

The SOC reserve CP by and large can be organizationally grouped into space operations command, political work, logistics
support, and equipment support departments. It is usually composed of a space operations deputy commander, and relevant
organ personnel. Its main duties are as follows: to collect and grasp space operations-related situation information; to
link up and maintain signal communication with other CPs; to properly perform all the preparatory work for taking over
command of space operations; and, based on the commander’s instructions, to take over command from the basic CP.

(3) Organizational grouping of the SOC rear CP

The SOC rear CP by and large can be organizationally grouped into a rear command center and [end of page 170] logistics
support, equipment support, and mobilization and support-the-front departments. It is usually composed of a space
operations deputy commander, the main personnel from the logistics (joint logistics) and equipment organs, and relevant
personnel from the HQ and political organs and the local support-the-front institution. The rear command center usually
sets up integrated planning {zonghe jihua}, control and adjusting-coordination, communication support and command
information system support, rear defense, and political work positions. It is mainly responsible for
adjusting-coordinating space operations logistics support, equipment support, and support-the-front mobilization work,
and commanding the rear defense activities. The logistics support department usually sets up planning and
adjusting-coordination, quartermaster materials, finance, medical, transport, and barracks positions, and is mainly
responsible for logistics support in space operations. The equipment support department usually sets up planning and
adjusting-coordination, general-purpose equipment support, and special-purpose equipment support positions, and is
mainly responsible for equipment support in space operations. The mobilization and support-the-front department usually
sets up planning and adjusting-coordination, mobilization, and support-the-front positions, and is mainly responsible
for mobilization and support-thefront work in space operations.

# Section 3: Space Operations Command Activity…171

Space operations command activity is the organizational and leadership activity carried out by space operations
commanders and their command organs over the space operations activities of their subordinate units, in order to achieve
certain operational goals. It mainly includes understanding and grasping and analyzing and assessing the space
operations situation, setting the space operational resolution, formulating the space operations plan, organizing space
operations preparations, organizing space operations coordination, commanding space operations activities, and
organizing space operations comprehensive support. Of these, the core of space operations command activity is the
setting of the resolution and realization of the resolution; these restrict and govern the units’ space operations
activities, influence and even decide the progress and outcome of space operations, and influence the smooth conduct of
war. Conducting in-depth study of space operations command activity has extremely important significance.

# I. Basic requirements for space operations command activity…171

In view of the very great influence of space operations on local war under informationized conditions, and their very
important position and role, ever stricter requirements have thus been put forth for space operations command activity.

1. Laying even more stress on efficiency

The pursuit of high efficiency is a universal law and basic requirement of operational command activity in ancient and
modern times both in China and abroad. Along with the constant evolution of the form-state of war, space operations
already have become an important operational pattern in modern war, and in particular within local war under
informationized conditions. Moreover, operations now assume the characteristics of short time segments and dangerous
situations, [end of page 171] requiring that space operations command activity should lay even more stress on high
efficiency. This stress is embodied in 3 respects: first is that space operations command decision-making must be
timely. During space operations, operational information propagates at the speed of light; space weapons exhibit
advanced performance, operate at extremely high speeds, have long operating ranges, and are not limited by national
boundaries, territorial waters, or territorial airspace. In particular, space weapons are not restricted by terrain
conditions or the atmospheric environment, so the operational tempo is accelerated. Hence, there is an urgent
requirement for command of space operations to be timely; this means focusing on the enemy space operations’
characteristics, rapidly assessing the situation, rapidly setting the operational resolution, changing when the enemy
changes, and even changing before the enemy does, to strive for the initiative. Next, the organizing and planning of
space operations must be rapid. The participating strengths in space operations are multidimensional $\{ duo yua n \} ,$
with mutual exploitation of other activities and alternation in their conduct; so organizing and planning are very
complex, inevitably leading to long planning cycles. However, objective reality with equal urgency requires that the
organizing and planning of space operations must be rapid and highly efficient. To this end, [commanders and command
organs] should draw upon research and development [R&D] of integrated {yitihua} command platforms and the opportunity to
use the command information system, lay stress on the organizing and planning functions of space operations, and exert
effort toward R&D of an advanced space operations organizing and planning subsystem. In particular, they should
strengthen the forcestrength calculations for space operations, with timely and accurate simulation evaluation
appraisal, thus greatly boosting the efficiency and scientific quality of organizing and planning, and thoroughly
changing the outdated status of manual drafting of plans. Finally, the control and adjusting-coordination of space
operations activities must be efficient. Good decision-making and good planning alone are insufficient: if the execution of space operations in the course of implementation is not forceful, good effects similarly cannot be
achieved. Hence, [commanders and their command organs] must reinforce control and adjusting-coordination of space
operations activities. [This involves] a timely grasp of the dynamic situation of space operations, and when detecting
that the enemy situation has undergone a major change and the battlefield posture differs from the original plan, with
major deviations in the units’ execution of the plan, they then must fully bring into play the roles of the command
information system and modern command means, to timely readjust and adjust-coordinate the space operations activities,
so that they are conducted according to the intent of our commanders.

2. Laying even more stress on a directed [focused] quality

Space operations are operational activities for seizing and maintaining space dominance, their goal being to sabotage
and strike at the enemy space operations objectives. Thus, command of space operations has a very strong directed
[focused] quality. This is mainly embodied in 3 respects: first, target selection in space operations must have a
directed [focused] quality. In order to see that space operations attain the optimal effects, space operations
commanders and their command organs must meticulously select the space operations objectives, and in particular must
select targets which have a huge influence on space operations, such as strategic early warning satellites,
communication satellites, navigation satellites, and space attack systems. By striking at these objectives, space
operations can achieve very great success. Second, selection of the methods and means in space operations must have a
directed [focused] quality. The targets of space operations mainly are concentrated among the early warning satellites,
communication satellites, navigation satellites, and space stations; and since their technical quality and professional
quality are very high, the means and measures often adopted [end of page 172] are relatively limited, so selection of
these means and measures is very important. Several means can be selected for one target, and even a single means can be
selected for one target. If the directed [focused] quality of the methods and means is not strong, the operational
effects are certain to be poor, and will not be able to play much of a role. Third, the selection of the timing of space
operations must have a directed [focused] quality. In terms of the space operations themselves, proper selection of the
timing can increase the operational benefit and reduce the operational losses. In terms of other operations, since space
operations often can lead to failure of the enemy command systems and precision guidance systems, and most effectively
screen and assist-support the other operational activities, the selection of their timing becomes even more important.
If the timing is either too early or too late, it could influence the smooth conduct of other operations.

3. Being even more particular about the combination of technology and tactics

Space operations are a new type of battlefield operations and high-technology-intensive operations which emerged and
developed along with the emergence and development of high technologies, especially space technology and IT, and their
wide application in the military. Space operations also have catalyzed command of space operations, so that a
technological quality and a professional quality are natural traits of space operations command activity. In addition,
command of space operations is an important component of operational command, and, like other operational command
activity, it has a very strong stratagem quality and tactical quality. Hence, command of space operations also similarly
has the characteristics of a technological quality, a professional quality, a stratagem quality, and a tactical quality.
In particular, this has put forth a requirement for even stronger emphasis in its command content on the tight
combination of the technical and the tactical. On one hand, space operations need and require the brute-force
bracesupport of technology. Space operations are dependent on the technical performance and tactical performance of
space operations weapons and equipment, and the better the technical performance, the better will be the tactical
performance. This also means that compared to command of other operations, command of space operations even more
requires technical knowledge, and requires having the participation of a large group of personnel who understand space
operational equipment and space operational knowledge. On the other hand, new technologies can generate new tactics in
space operations. Today, a grouping of new technologies with space technology and IT as the core is rapidly developing,
and regularly bringing about new changes. Once these technologies are used for military goals, they could immediately
generate very many new weapons and new types of equipment. If these new weapons and new types of equipment are employed
rationally, they could also generate very many new tactics, and thus achieve taking the enemy by surprise within the
course of space operations. Hence, those serving as space operations command personnel and operating personnel for new
weapons and equipment must, on the basis of a skillful grasp of the related equipment’s performance, reinforce studies
of tactics, to fully bring into play the operational performance of the equipment. At the same time, in peacetime they
also must take care to track developments in space technology and IT, and, based on the possibility of technical
development, study and forecast the various tactics which can be generated. In this way, they not only can pull the
development of the technologies, but also can lay the foundation for tactical applications after the technologies are
formed into equipment. [end of page 173]

4. Paying even more attention to mutual correlation

Space operational forces not only can independently contend for space dominance or do so under assisting support and
complementation by other operational strengths, and thus seize success in space operations; they also can serve as
operational support strengths and fire assisting support strengths, to create good prerequisite conditions to contend
for information dominance, command of the air, and command of the sea, and to provide assisting support and safeguarding
support {zhiyuan baozhang} to other operational strengths for executing continuous strikes at the enemy’s deep targets
or war potential targets, right up to seizing success in land, naval, and air operations. Hence, space operations
activities have extremely high relevance to other operational activities. Space operations command personnel must
comprehensively consider the various situations within the full-dimensional $\{ qua nwe i \}$ battlefield, and attach
high importance to complementation and adjusting-coordination between space operations activities and other operational
activities. If a certain frequency, a certain time, or a certain activity in the course of space operations undergoes
change, [command personnel] should timely brief the associated unit(s), and correspondingly readjust the force-strengths
and plans, so that the operational effects are interlinked and rely on one another for support, thus achieving
integrated joint effects. If they do not pay attention to the relevance of space operations to other operations, that
very likely could lead to a reduction in the operational effects, and even lead to the severe aftermaths of mistaken
strikes and accidental injuries.

# II. Main content of space operations command activity…174

Space operations command activity is the tensest, sharpest, most important, most brilliant activity within space
operations. Its content is wide-ranging, its coordination is complex, and its requirements on standards are strict. Only
by comprehensively understanding all content of space operations command activity, and accurately grasping the critical
links and important problems within it, can [space operations command personnel] steer the space operations toward
success.

1. Understanding and grasping and analyzing and assessing the space operations situation

Understanding and assessing the space operations situation are prerequisites and the basis for setting the space
operational resolution, planning and organizing the space operations, and controlling and adjusting-coordinating the
space operations activities. Space operations commanders and their command organs must employ all space reconnaissance
and early warning strengths; construct a space reconnaissance and early warning and surveillance SoS; and adopt a
variety of reconnaissance intelligence and early warning and surveillance measures, to comprehensively collect and grasp
the space operations situation, including the enemy situation, the friendly situation, and the battlefield environment.
Moreover, on the basis of fully understanding the space operations missions and profoundly understanding the
higher-level general intent, they should join with related departments to carry out synthetic [comprehensive] analysis
and assessment of the acquired space operations situation, and in overall situation respects, grasp the developing
changes in the enemy and friendly sides’ space operations situations to lay the foundation for correctly setting the
space operational resolution.

The content here mainly includes the following: first is the enemy situation. [This involves] the enemy space operations
intention, space operational forces’ task organization and disposition, the missions of all space operational units and
the correlated missions of other units, the possible [end of page 174] space operational modes, the command of space
operations, the main space attack means and key point objectives, the main space defensive means, the activity laws of
space operations, the complementation of space operations for other operational activities, and the current activity
situation of the space operational forces; the enemy space operational forces’ strong points and weak points, the
technical weak points of the space operations equipment, and the time opportunities and intermediate links we can
exploit; the structure, distribution, critical nodes or links, and technical weak points of the enemy information system
and its infrastructure; and the degree of reliance of the enemy information system on the reconnaissance and early
warning, navigation positioning, and communication satellite information infrastructure, plus its repair capability.
Second is the friendly situation. [This includes] the space operations requirements of the higher-level operations’
general intention, the space operational forces’ task organization and disposition, the main space weapons and equipment
and their performance, the space operational activities which can be adopted, the organizing of command of space
operations, the space attack fighting methods and defense fighting methods, the space operational support capability,
the situation of progress in current space operations, and the civilian personnel and equipment exploitable for space
operations, as well as their technical levels. Third is the battlefield environment. [This includes] the atmospheric
environment, the EM environment, the vacuum and microgravity environment, the space debris, and the solar and
geomagnetospheric activity, as well as their influence on space operations and the factors we can exploit.

When collecting and grasping and analyzing and assessing the space operations situation, the space operations command
department, besides abiding by the requirements for speed, objectivity, and accuracy, also must take special care to
grasp the following several points: first is the need to adopt multiple means to grasp the situation. [This means] as
much as possible mobilizing the reconnaissance strengths of all services and arms and giving them a rational
disposition; constructing a space reconnaissance intelligence and early warning and surveillance SoS; and adopting a
variety of advanced R&S means — in particular, full exploitation of advanced means for space reconnaissance and early
warning and surveillance, ground long-range early warning and surveillance, and technical reconnaissance — to
comprehensively collect the situation related to enemy space operations, in order to provide the prerequisites for correctly analyzing and assessing the enemy
space operations intention, unit operational capability, main operational direction, main operational phase, and main
operational activities, as well as their main strong points and weak points. Second is the need for a mutual combination
of macroscopic analysis and microscopic analysis. On one hand, [the space operations command department] must set out
from the microscopic and technical standpoints; reinforce analysis of specific problems such as the technical tactical
characteristics, launch, rendezvous, and recovery of space operations platforms and space weapons and equipment; and
thus create favorable conditions for precision command and precision strike. On the other hand, it also must set out
from the macroscopic and strategic and campaign standpoints; reinforce in-depth analyses of the space operations’
integrated-whole posture and of the influence of space operations on land, sea, and air battlefield operations and even
the entire war; and thus lay the foundation for formulating space strategy and space operational guidance. It must lay
stress on organically combining macroscopic analysis with microscopic analysis, to ensure correct assessment of the
space operations situation. In particular, it must guard against attaching too much importance to the microscopic while
ignoring assessment of space operations in macroscopic respects, which would diminish the commander’s macroscopic
guidance over space operations and thus reduce the effects of the space operations. Third is the need [end of page 175]
to consider the influence of the battlefield environment on space operations. Compared to the traditional battlefield
environments, the space battlefield environment has a great many special qualities and has different influences on space
operations. To give several examples, space radiation and space debris may influence the detection, identification, and
tracking of missiles by a space missile early warning system; perturbations in the ionosphere may influence the
measurement accuracy for a target’s azimuth, speed, and range by a space R&S system, and could seriously influence the
quality of satellite communications; solar flare radiation can immediately produce interference with all types of EM
signals and persist for several hours or more; sunspot eruptions will lead to the occurrence of sharp changes in the
density of the upper atmosphere, in turn leading to spacecraft seriously deviating from their predetermined orbits;
lower atmospheric phenomena have a fairly high radiating influence on spacecraft; intense solar activity can induce
magnetic storms, causing greater inhomogeneity in the ionosphere, thus leading to the occurrence of sharp changes in the
intensity and phase of communication and navigation signals; and factors such as the earth’s magnetic field will
influence the employment effects of certain new concept weaponry. Hence, only when space operations command personnel
accurately grasp and synthetically [comprehensively] analyze the space battlefield environment can they dynamically
exploit the battlefield environment within future space operations, and achieve the goal of pursuing the advantage while
avoiding harm.

2. Setting the space operational resolution

Setting of the space operational resolution is the operations-research-based planning and decision process carried out
by space operations commanders and their command organs for the content of the space operations objectives, the space
operational forces, the space operations direction, the space operational activities, the basic fighting methods of
space operations, and all items of space support. It is the critical link and core content in space operations command
activity, and is the basis for organizing and command of space operational activities. It mainly includes two parts: the
chief of staff’s putting forth of space operational resolution recommendations, and the commander’s setting of the space
operational resolution. Whether the content of the space operational resolution is scientific and whether the process of
setting the resolution is timely and resolute are of the utmost importance, and will influence and even decide the
success or failure of the space operational activities.

The main content of space operational resolution recommendations includes the following: the situation assessment
conclusions; the goals of the space operations; the main direction of space attack and the important objectives and
timing; the main direction of space defense and the targets defended; the disposition and mission differentiation for
all units; the space offensive fighting methods and defensive fighting methods; the organizing of command coordination;
and the time limit for completing the space operational preparations.

The putting forth of space operational resolution recommendations is done on the basis of the space operations
department’s systematic study of the situation associated with the space operations, and the recommendations are then
put forth to the commander by the chief of staff after his further induction and summary. When studying and putting
forth space operational resolution recommendations, [the space operations department] must grasp 3 points: first is the
need to tightly center on the higher-level intent in putting forth the space operational resolution recommendations. The
higher-level intent is the basis and foundation for the participating units’ unified thought, unified planning, unified
command, and unified activities. Only when [the department] tightly centers on the higher-level intent, [end of page
176] studies the problems of the root-level space operations, and launches the space operational activities, can it have
the situation of the root unit’s activities conform to the higher-level intent and the higher level’s space operations
plan, and thus more easily achieve the general goal of the campaign activities. Second is the need to put forth the
space operational resolution recommendations from the standpoint of the strategic and campaign overall situation. Space
operations not only can be independent operational activities, but also more often are important components in joint
operations; they are guided and restricted by the overall situation of joint operations, and conversely influence and even decide success or failure in the overall situation of joint operations. To
this end, [the space operations department] must keep grounded in the overall situation; center on the main operational
goal, direction, phases, and activities during operations-research-based planning for the space operations; and unify
the space activities’ main force-strengths, main direction, and main activities into the joint operations, so that space
operations are consistently adjusted-coordinated with the overall situation of joint operations, to form
integrated-whole composite strength. Third is the need to relentlessly put forth effort to study the space operations
COAs. It must set out from the most complex and most difficult situations, have many preparations made in advance,
formulate multiple COAs, and guard against hastily meeting the enemy head on — and even collapsing without a fight — due
to inadequate preparations. From the technical and tactical standpoints, on the basis of fully analyzing the enemy space
operations’ strong points and weak points, it must be able to deliberate in depth, innovate in fighting methods, and
work hard to find various COAs to vanquish the enemy.

3. Formulating the space operations plan

The space operations plan is the plan for organizing the units in conducting space operational activities. It is the
specific embodiment of the space commander’s operational resolution, and is the basic foundation for the space units’
operational activities. The formulation of a thorough, detailed space operations plan plays an important role of
decisive significance in ensuring the smooth fulfillment of the space operations missions. The space operations plan
usually is formulated by the space operations command organ, based on the higher-level intent and on the root-level
commander’s resolution and instructions, combined with the actual situation of the space operations.

Formulation of the space operations plan involves two situations: in one situation, only a space war breaks out, and
space operations serve as an independent operational pattern; at such time, there is a requirement to formulate a space
operations general plan, sub-plans, and support plans. In the other situation, a space war breaks out in parallel with
another type of war, so that space operations are not the only operational pattern; at such time, the space operations
plan needing to be formulated will be a sub-plan for the joint operations plan. The content of the space operations plan
usually includes the following: the situation assessment conclusions, with the key point being the enemy space
operations intention; the enemy force-strength task organization and disposition, plus its activity laws; the enemy
operational capability, plus its strong points and weak points; the enemy’s main direction and key point objectives; the
types, quantities, and deployment of the enemy’s space main battle equipment; and the timing and modes which he can
employ, as well as their harm to and influence on us; our space units’ operational capability; the quantities,
performance, and deployment of our main battle equipment; the time needed for operational preparations; the operational
strength comparison with the enemy; the favorable conditions and unfavorable factors for fulfilling the operational
missions; [end of page 177] and the influence of the space environment on the enemy and friendly sides’ operational
activities. In the higher-level intent, the key points are the higher level’s strategic intention, the guiding concept
and principles relating to all space operations, the operational goals which must be achieved, and the assisting support
strengths and resources which can be provided. In the root-level missions, the key points are the task organization,
deployment, and mission differentiation for all space units; the operational phase partitioning and the situation
expectations, plus the handling COAs for these situations; the main operational direction and the key point objectives;
the space operations assisting support missions which can be undertaken by other operational strengths; the times, areas
(zones), and modes for operational coordination; the organizing of and support measures for command of space operations;
the time limit for completing the space operations preparations; and the time(s) for launching the space operations.
When the space operations plan serves as a sub-plan, the complementation between the space operational activities and
the other operational activities also should be included.

The space operations plan involves the success or failure of the space operations. Hence, formulation of the space
operations plan should include a grasp of 3 problems: first is reinforcing the directed [focused] quality. This means a
need to focus on the goals and missions of the space operations, so that the operations plan to the maximum extent
adheres closely to operational reality. This not only requires understanding the higherlevel intent in an all-around and
systematic manner, and achieving an all-around understanding of the operations’ overall situation goal, operational
guidance, task organization of strength, and activities methods, but also requires carrying out an objective analysis
and accurate assessment of the enemy’s situation, such as his intention, force-strength task organization, and
operational capability. On the basis of knowing oneself and knowing the enemy, [the space operations command organ will]
analyze the advantageous and disadvantageous conditions for space operations, and in particular focus on the enemy’s
vital site targets, vital site systems, and vital site nodes, and formulate a space operations plan to produce
precision, fierce, relentless strike effects against the enemy, in order to trick and subdue the enemy. Second is
properly combining precision with leaving adequate leeway. Space operations are long in range, with strict requirements
on precision. Hence, when formulating the plan, the precise time for completing the preparations, the precise time for
launching [spacecraft], the precision time for rendezvous, the precise time for orbital [entry], and the precise time
for attack all must be calculated with unusual accuracy. Otherwise, even a tiny error could lead to a large discrepancy.
At the same time, in terms of the quantity of units employed, the linkup of all activities, and the preparations for
support materiel and munitions, [command organ personnel] must leave adequate leeway to guard against a change in one factor causing other activity to
fall into a disordered and passive situation. Third is paying attention to the interface with other operations plans. No
matter whether in formulating an independent space operations plan, or in formulating a space operations sub-plan within
joint operations, [command organ personnel] always must take care with the interfaces among the general plan, the
sub-plan, and the various support plans. The key points are on clarifying for all operations plans the main mission, the
force-strength composition, the operational disposition, the main activities, the command coordination, and the
comprehensive support; conducting careful inspections in regard to times, spaces, and resource allocation, as well as
mission arrangements; seeing whether there are points of contradiction such as inconsistency in missions, overlap in the
arrangements, and unconnected activities; and correcting those points of contradiction, to guard against the occurrence
of undue errors. [end of page 178]

4. Organizing the space operational preparations

Space operational preparations signify the preparations carried out for the space operations units in regard to their
personnel, thought, materiel, organizing, and activities, in order for them to carry out the space operational missions.
In space operations, the time is short and the tempo is rapid, and the level of quality in the pre-combat preparations
will have a direct bearing on the success or failure of the space operations and even of all operations. Hence,
preparations for space operations must be firmly and closely grasped.

The main content of the preparations for space operations includes the following: drawing in personnel and launching the
pre-combat mobilization; determining the task organization and organizational grouping for command of, operations by,
and support for the space operational forces, and rationally arranging the backbone strengths; readjusting the current
operational disposition to form a favorable momentum disposition for the space operational forces; maintaining and rush
repairing the existing equipment and information systems, including replenishing the ground space operations equipment,
instrument equipment, munitions, and related materiel, and adjusting-coordinating the relevant departments in resolving
problems present in the space operational preparations; focusing on the possible enemy situation, friendly situation,
and battlefield conditions when launching the tactical and technical preparations for space operations; focusing on
unknown areas (zones) and the main enemy situation to carry out emergency launch of reconnaissance satellites and
relevant space operations platforms, for reconnaissance, early warning, and surveillance of the enemy space operations
activity situation; when time permits, organizing operational simulation and emulation, to test the feasibility of the
space operations plans and COAs; organizing the space operational forces’ imminent battle training, so that the units
become intimately familiar with the related plans and COAs; organizing the maneuver and unfolding of the space
operational forces; focusing on the enemy situation when organizing space testing and carrying out space deterrence; and
inspecting the space operation preparations situation in all units.

Space operational preparations are directly organized and conducted by the chief of staffled space operations command
department, based on the commander’s instructions and according to the space operational resolution and the space
operations plan. During the organizing, [command department personnel] should take care to grasp the following several
points: first is the need for high standards and strict requirements. Space operations have characteristics such as
rapid attack speed, a long operating range, and platforms far from the support bases. Unlike the situations on the land
battlefield, sea battlefield, and air battlefield, once the platforms leave the ground and enter deep space, they cannot
be replenished or repaired within a short time. Sometimes, problems arising in the components and parts of a certain
platform also can cause space disasters. Hence, when organizing space operational preparations, [command department
personnel] always must be hard and strict with the requirements, reinforce inspections and supervision-promotion, and
see that all preparatory work is solidly and carefully performed. Second is the need to reinforce tactical and technical
studies. Tactics and technology are the magic weapons for vanquishing the enemy. In terms of the opposing sides, besides
the current large-scale application of space reconnaissance and early warning surveillance, all other operational means
in space have not yet undergone realcombat testing. In order to gain superiority in space operations, [command
department personnel] not only must rely on advanced weapons and equipment, but also must rely on brilliant fighting
methods for space attack and space defense. The side which conducts indepth tactical and technical studies is bound to
summarize, conclude, and innovate a great many fighting methods, and within future space operations also will certainly
[end of page 179] hold the initiative. Therefore, while conducting R&D of new space operations platforms and weapons and
equipment, [command department personnel] certainly must set out from the technical standpoint, reinforce studies of
fighting methods in space operations, and constantly find tricky moves to send the enemy to his doom. At the same time,
focusing on the changing situations which can arise during real combat, they must study and formulate responsive
measures to ensure the smooth conduct of space operations. Third is the need to rigorously organize protection. Since
space operations have the characteristics of global reach and global deep strike, the result is that any space
infrastructure situated in the strategic depth always will be revealed under those threats. At the same time, various
types of space platforms, due to the peacetime constraints of international space laws, basically stay in an undefended
status. To this end, in peacetime [command department personnel] must earnestly reinforce operations-research-based
planning for space defense, and make preparations early. Prior to combat, then, they should adopt measures such as emergency launch of backup satellites, initial use of backup frequencies, and
transportation of urgently needed materiel toward space stations, to further reinforce the preparations for space
operations.

5. Organizing space operational coordination

Space operational coordination signifies the mutual assistance and mutual complementation of all operational strengths
in space operations, and thus the consistent adjusting-coordination of space operational activities, to form an organic
integrated whole. The organizing of space operational coordination is an important component of space operations command
activity. Its goal is to achieve complementation of superiorities among all operational strengths, mutual linkup of the
operational times, and mutual exploitation of operational effects, and thus bring into play the integrated whole might
of our space operations, to create good conditions for seizing space dominance and smoothly launching the other
operational activities.

The main content of space operational coordination includes the following: the overall mission and general objectives of
the space operations; the partitioning of all phases and all time segments of the space operations; the missions of all
units participating in the space operations; the objectives, areas (zones), times, methods, and avenues for carrying out
the missions; the items for coordination among all internal space forces; the items for coordination between the space
operational forces and the land, sea, and air operational strengths, as well as the conventional missile operational
strengths; the items of coordination between the space operational forces and the civilian space forces; the recovery
measures when space operational coordination is sabotaged or misadjusted; and the requirements and related
specifications for coordination.

The organizing of space operational coordination is under the leadership of the space operations commander, with the
coordination specifically organized and implemented by the chief of staff-led space operations command department,
according to the joint operations plan and the space operations plan. When the circumstances are grave or during
organizing of major space operational coordination, this coordination will be personally organized by the commander.
While organizing space operational coordination, [command department personnel] should take care to grasp the following
several points: first is the need to formulate a space operational coordination plan or issue space operational
coordination instructions. In future space operations, the participating strengths could be concentrated, or could be
administratively subordinate to different services and arms, and have a decentralized disposition; but during space
operations, the activities [end of page 180] will be very brief, making for difficulty in command coordination. All
levels of space operations command departments should, according to the joint operations plan and the commander’s
intent, timely formulate a space operational coordination plan or issue space operational coordination instructions, so
as to provide a basis for the subordinate units to organize coordinated actions in space operations, so that these
subordinate units according to a unified plan and unified required activities will form integrated-whole composite
strength. Second is the need to lay stress on the key points of space operational coordination. Space operational
coordination must clearly distinguish primary from secondary. This mainly includes the following: during internal
coordination of the space operational forces, [command department personnel] should center on launching coordination for
the units executing the main mission; when carrying out space operational missions, the coordination between the space
operational forces and the other services’ strengths should center on the unfolding of the space operational forces’
activities, and the coordination between the space operational forces and the civilian strengths should center on the
unfolding of the space operational forces’ activities; and when carrying out space assisting support to operational
missions on other battlefields, the space operational forces should center on launching coordination with the activities
of the other services and arms. In this way, space operations then can form an organic integrated whole. Third is a need
to organize operational coordination in an uninterrupted manner. Future space operations can accompany IO, be conducted
before other operational activities, and penetrate the entire course of war. The opposing sides inevitably will carry
out sharp contention centering on space dominance, so occasional interruptions of space operational coordination can
hardly be avoided; but if coordination is interrupted and not timely restored, and [the situation] left to develop, then
the aftermath will be too dreadful to imagine. To this end, prior to combat, the space operations command department
must study all methods of space operational coordination, and formulate recovery methods and measures when the various
types of coordination encounter sabotage. When the situation permits, it also must organize testing and training, so
that the units become thoroughly familiar with the methods and skilled in the procedures. During combat, it [must] focus
on situations of interruption in space operational coordination, draw upon peacetime studies to formulate the
coordination recovery measures, and immediately adopt the corresponding countermeasures, to ensure an uninterrupted flow
of space operational coordination.

6. Controlling and adjusting-coordinating the space operational activities

The control and adjusting-coordination of space operational activities signifies a series of activities — issuing of
instructions, tracking of feedback, posture analysis, and error correction and adjustment control — conducted for the
participating units by the space operations commander and his command organ, according to the space operational
resolution and space operations plan. The control and adjusting-coordination of space operational activities is the core
of space operations command activity. Its goal is to see that the activities of the units participating in space
operations are conducted and consistently adjusted-coordinated according to the fixed plan, thus to the maximum extent
bringing into play integrated-whole operational effectiveness. Control and adjusting-coordination of the space
operational activities has maximally important roles in seizing space dominance and in providing assisting support and
screening for other operational activities.

The main content in control and adjusting-coordination of space operational activities includes the following: in a
timely and accurate way, grasping the enemy and friendly space operational postures, the enemy space operations’ main
posture and its influence on our space operational activities, and the main activities and main fighting methods of our
space operations, plus their operational effects; according to the space operations plan, [end of page 181]
supervising-promoting the activities of all forces; according to the space operational coordination plan (instructions),
adjusting-coordinating the activities for complementation between the main direction and secondary direction, among the
space operational forces and between the space operational forces and other assisting support and safeguarding support
strengths, between the space operational forces executing the current missions and those executing follow-up missions,
and between the space operational forces executing special missions and those executing general missions; and based on
the development of space operations or on the situation when space operations encounter a major setback, readjusting the
space operational forces’ disposition and resources deployment, adjusting the space operational missions, establishing
new space operational centers of gravity [COGs] and critical links, adjusting the coordination relationships among the
space operational forces and between them and other operational strengths, and adjusting the space operations command
relationships and command modes.

The control and adjusting-coordination of space operations is specifically organized and implemented by the space
operations commander and his space operations department, according to the space operational resolution and the space
operations plan. In the control and adjusting-coordination of space operations, they must take care to grasp the
following several points: first is the need to carry out the control and adjustingcoordination by centering on the space
operational resolution and the space operations plan (instructions). The space operational resolution and space
operations plan (instructions) are the foundation and basis for the space operational activities. When conducting the
space operations, they certainly must implement C2 of the activities according to the space operational resolution and
operations plan (instructions). When the enemy and friendly situations and the battlefield situation have not undergone
big changes, they must not be disturbed by some unimportant small details or small changes, but should supervise-promote
the units in continuing to conduct their activities according to the original plan. When the enemy and friendly
situations and the battlefield situation have undergone fairly big changes and the units cannot fulfill their missions
according to the original plan, they must adjust the unit activities under conditions of upholding the space operations
general intent unchanged and based on the changing situation. Second is the need to flexibly carry out the control and
adjusting-coordination. “Just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions.”14
Operations are always in a process of constant change, and situations where space operational activities C2 is
implemented completely according to the space operational resolution and the space operations plan (instructions) almost
do not exist. Hence, when the space operations commander and his command organ are in command of space operations and
find that the situation has somewhat changed, they must not copy [methods] mechanically and apply them indiscriminately,
but must — based on contingency preliminary COAs and COAs formulated in advance, combined with the new changes and new
situation — flexibly adopt new command modes and new fighting methods, and implement new control and
adjusting-coordination of the space operational activities, so that the space operational activities from start to
finish are adapted to the needs and requirements of the new circumstances. Third is the need to scientifically carry out
the control and adjusting-coordination. The space operational activities times are brief, and their technical quality
and professional quality are strong; space operations C2 must be very particular about the scientific quality. On one
hand, [the commander and his command organ] must fully apply the new command means, and in particular the command
information system, to carry out aided decision-making; timely readjust the force-strength, disposition, and fighting
methods of the space operations; and rapidly disseminate the space operational instructions and related information, so
as to boost the rationalness and timeliness of C2. On the other hand, they must focus on the performance of the enemy’s
space operations weapons and equipment and their application characteristics, from the technical standpoint select
appropriate [end of page 182] confrontational modes and methods, and constantly innovate the confrontational modes and
methods, so as to boost the directed [focused] quality and effectiveness of the space operations.

7. Organizing comprehensive support for space operations

Comprehensive support for space operations is the general term for all ensuring measures adopted by, and corresponding
activity conducted by, the units to carry out their space operational missions. According to the differences in mission,
it is divided into operational support, logistics support, equipment technical support, and political work support for space operations; and according to the differences in level, it is divided into space strategic operational
support and space campaign operational support. The organizing of comprehensive support for space operations is an
important component of space operations command activity. Well provided comprehensive support for space operations
similarly has extremely important significance for seizing space dominance and for assisting support and screening of
other operational activities.

The content of comprehensive support for space operations includes the following: operational support, mainly consisting
of space reconnaissance, space early warning, space communication, navigation positioning, camouflage and protection,
meteorological, engineering, and geodetic support; logistics support, mainly consisting of materiel, transport, medical,
and information support; and equipment support, mainly consisting of weapons and equipment, technical equipment, and
base duty support. The organizing of comprehensive support for space operations is jointly handled and implemented by
command HQ, the logistics (joint logistics) department, the equipment department, and related departments, based on the
commander’s instructions and the space operational resolution, and according to the space operational support plan
(instructions). When organizing comprehensive support for space operations, [these departments] should take care to
grasp the following several points: first is the need to lay stress on the key points of comprehensive support for space
operations. Space operational support has many classes and complex content, so when organizing support they should never
evenly divide the force-strengths and resources, but must lay stress on the key points. This means laying stress on the
main mission, main direction, main phase, and main activities of the space operations, to achieve the maximum support
benefit. For example, during space offensive operations, they must place the key points on antisatellite [ASAT]
operations and on operations to attack space ground targets within the enemy depth; or during space assisting support to
other operations, they must place the key points on properly providing space reconnaissance, space early warning, space
communication, and navigation positioning support. Second is the need to reinforce the organizing and
adjusting-coordination of comprehensive support for space operations. The units, personnel, and equipment participating
in space operational support are numerous, and the organizing of the command procedures, content, and methods is very
complex. To this end, the relevant departments involved in space operational support must strengthen the consciousness
of initiative-based support and active adjustingcoordination, and reinforce the unified operations-research-based
planning {tongchou guihua} and organizing and adjusting-coordination. This means centering on the space operational
resolution and the comprehensive support plan (instructions) for space operations; leveraging success in space
operations for success in comprehensive support for space operations; correctly handling the support relationships
between the main mission and the secondary mission, between the main direction and the secondary direction, between the
main phase and the secondary phases, and between the main activities and the secondary activities, as well as between the current missions and later missions; [end of page 183]
and ensuring the adjusted-coordinated development in all respects of comprehensive support for space operations. Third
is the need to innovate the modes and methods of comprehensive support for space operations. Space operations are a new
type of operations, and not only are there few nations with experience in providing such support, the support
installations are universally not fully complemented. Hence, in peacetime [the relevant departments] must earnestly
study the modes and methods of comprehensive support for space operations; and in wartime, based on the actual situation
of the space operations, they must break with the conventional and innovate several new support modes and methods, to
gain the initiative in comprehensive support for space operations.

# Questions for Deliberation…184

1. Which are the main characteristics of command of space operations?
2. Which are the basic principles of command of space operations?
3. How is the space operations command SoS composed?
4. How are the space operations command institutions task organized and
organizationally grouped?
5. Which are the main contents of space operations command activity? [end of page
184; end of lecture]

# Lecture 7 The Practical Applications and Developmental Trends of Space Operations...185

In the more than half a century from the birth of the various kinds of spacecraft, primarily satellites, until today,
although the various kinds of military spacecraft spread all over outer space have yet to fight one another face to
face, their support and assistance have reached a point where these are pervasive and ubiquitous on the land, sea, air,
and electromagnetic battlefields; they greatly affect the course and outcome of warfare, and their status and role are
increasing daily. In today’s age, competition among space military strengths has developed and led to a new service –
the birth of “space forces.” Information support operations and anti-missile operations that are based on space already
exist and have increasingly presented certain characteristics of future space operations. However, in the final
analysis, no large-scale actual war has yet to occur in outer space, similar to those on land, at sea, or in the air. In
other words, a new form of operations – “space wars” – has yet to appear side by side with land wars, naval wars, and
air wars. Therefore, this lecture does not refer to some actions in which military spaceflight (or confrontations) has
been used, which have occurred in history, and which have the characteristics of space operations, as “examples of space
operations;” this differs from the fairly universal appellations in current academic circles, such as The Science of
Military Spaceflight,15 and we hope the reader will draw this distinction. Based on this, this lecture is entitled “The
Practical Applications and Developmental Trends of Space Operations,” and it aims at investigating the process by which
space operations have occurred and developed, at helping to deepen an understanding of the importance of space
operations, and at promoting the in-depth study of space operations theory.

# Section 1: The Practical Applications of Space Operations...185

Based on the development of space weapons and equipment and their use in modern local wars, it is possible to divide the
practical applications of space operations into three periods: the initial period of practical applications of space
operations (the 1950s to the late 1980s), the middle period of practical applications of space operations (the early
1990s to the late 1990s), and the recent period of practical applications of space operations (the late 1990s through
today).

# I. The initial period of practical applications of space operations...186

After the Second World War, at the same time that the two superpowers, the United States and the Soviet Union, engaged
in large-scale research and development and deployment of strategic nuclear weapons, they also intensified their
research and development of military and military-civilian spacecraft, in order to contain and defeat their opponent;
they launched an intense arms race in space, and as a result of this, the use of space operations that were
characterized by space information assistance and support took the stage.

1. The use of space operations in the Berlin Crisis

The Berlin Crisis fell under the category of issues left over from the Second World War, and historically there were two
of them. The first occurred at the end of the 1940s. With the thorough defeat of fascist Germany in the Second World
War, Berlin was divided into East Berlin, which was occupied by the Soviet Union, and West Berlin, which was occupied by
the United States, the United Kingdom, and France. West Berlin lay in the heart of an area occupied by the Soviet
military, and had its own independent government and the Western allies’ garrison units; the West viewed it as “the last
‘bastion of democracy’ existing in Communism under the Iron Curtain.” The Soviet Union believed that Western forces’
existence in West Berlin was dangerous and intolerable, and it needed to remove this nail from its eye, this thorn from
its flesh. Therefore, East-West relations were extremely tense at that time, and both sides threatened each other with
nuclear weapons, thus for a time forming a situation where daggers were drawn. The second crisis lasted for four years,
from 1958 to 1963; looking at its causes, it was considered to be a historical continuation of the first crisis. Soviet
leader [Nikita] Khrushchev demanded that the United States, the United Kingdom, and France end their occupation of West
Berlin and that Berlin be made a free city; the Western countries refused to yield. Khrushchev made use of a “missile
gap” at that time, which was rumored about in the United States, and sent a final ultimatum to the United States and its
allies, announcing that in an emergency situation he would not hesitate to mobilize intercontinental missiles to launch
a nuclear weapon with a hydrogen warhead; this was an attempt to force the United States to yield, and for a time it
left the United States confused. During that time, the Soviet Union successfully launched the first artificial
satellite, Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957. The United States on 28 February 1959 launched the first military spy
satellite, Discoverer 1; although [the launch] was not successful, in the following year or so, [the United States]
successively launched twelve Discoverer spy satellites, and it ultimately on 10 August 1960 successfully launched the
thirteenth spy satellite, Discoverer 13, and the next day successfully retrieved a film canister, marking the start of
mankind’s use of outer space to engage in military activities.

In 1961, the National Security Advisor to then-President Kennedy of the United States, based on the intelligence that
had been collected, deduced that Khrushchev was only bluffing. In order to test the accuracy of this deduction, the
United States on 7 July launched a Samos-2 photoreconnaissance satellite to carry out detailed reconnaissance
photography of the Soviet Union’s missile test site. Through analysis of the photography, [the United States] discovered
that the Soviet Union’s SS-7 and SS-8 intercontinental missiles were still in a test phase and did not have actual
combat capabilities. At the same time, it also ascertained that the Soviet Union’s intercontinental missiles did not
number 400, as rumored, but only fourteen, similar to the United States; this entirely cleared up the so-called “missile
gap.” In October of that year, President Kennedy met with the Soviet Union’s foreign minister and let him see the
satellite photographs, debunking on the spot Khrushchev’s bluff as well as the bottom line of the blackmail that he was
carrying out. Faced with the United States’ satellite photographs, Khrushchev had no choice but to soften his attitude,
and he was forced to withdraw his “ultimatum” with its flavor of nuclear warfare. The second Berlin Crisis ultimately
was “peacefully” resolved because of fairly major concessions by the Soviet Union.

The Berlin Crisis was a serious military crisis that erupted between the two camps of West and East, headed respectively
by the United States and the Soviet Union. The defusing of the crisis benefited from the cutting edge of space military
strengths in their first test, fully showing the enormous potential military power that space bore and its important
status and role in warfare and crises.

2. The use of space operations in the Cuban Missile Crisis

The “Cuban Missile Crisis” was a bitter pill brought about by US hegemonism and the US-Soviet struggle to dominate the
world. Cuba historically was a Spanish colony. After the 1898 Spanish-American War, the United States occupied Cuba. In
1901, the United States forced a Cuban constitutional convention to include an “amendment” proposed by US congressmen to
the Cuban constitution, stipulating that the United States had the “right” to send troops to interfere in Cuban internal
affairs. The Cuban Republic was established on 20 May 1902. In 1903, the United States forcibly leased two Cuban naval
bases; of these, Guantanamo Base is still used by the United States. Subsequently, the United States sent troops to
occupy Cuba, in 1906, 1912, and 1917, thereby interfering in Cuba’s internal affairs. President [Fulgencio] Bautista
relied upon US support to take office. Internally, he banned various political parties and democratic groups, brutally
killed patriotic persons and progressive people, and carried out policies of white terror; externally, he obeyed the
United States, followed its advice, and sold his country for glory. Under the leadership of Fidel Castro, who had been
born in poverty, the Cuban people overthrew the Bautista dictatorship, which was supported by the United States, by
means of an arduous revolution, and established a new revolutionary regime. Subsequently, Castro made his first visit to
the United States and took the initiative to express [a desire] to improve relations between the two countries. However,
the United States looked down on Castro and demanded that Cuba continue to be the United States sugar cane colony.
Castro defended Cuba’s sovereignty without turning back, and this infuriated the United States even more. The youthful
and arrogant Kennedy heard the news, and in an endless rage, he announced in 1960 that the United States would stop
importing sugar from Cuba.

The United States’ hegemonic behavior angered the Cuban people. The reason was that the sugar refining industry had
always been Cuba’s economic lifeline; sugar was the main source of income for the Cuban people, and they relied upon
sugar to exchange for food and other goods. This prohibition by the United States was equivalent to cutting off Cuba’s
economic lifeline. In order to break through the United States’ embargo and blockade, all that Castro could do was seek
help from the Soviet Union. And the Soviet Union, out of its need to struggle for hegemony with the United States, was
thinking about finding a foothold in the Americas. Cuba’s request for aid was something that Khrushchev much desired. He
immediately announced that the Soviet Union was willing to extend a hand in aid and to buy Cuba’s sugar, and he promised
to supply Cuba with industrial equipment, so that Cuba would obtain foreign exchange and other benefits. The Soviet
Union’s assistance to Castro alleviated Cuba’s urgent needs, but it further infuriated the United States. Therefore, the
United states trained 2,000 Cuban mercenaries, and these landed early in the morning of 17 April 1961 at Cuba’s Giron
Beach (or Bay of Pigs), in an attempt to use military force to overthrow the Cuban revolutionary regime. At this
instance of life or death, Castro ordered the Cuban military and people to fight for seventy-two hours, and they
completely destroyed the Cuban Brigade of US mercenary troops, composed of Cuban exiles, thus thoroughly pulverizing the
United States’ plan to overthrow Cuba. When one trick fails, try another; the United States decided to send a special
agent to assassinate Castro, while at the same time intensifying its embargo and blockade against Cuba.

In order to resist the United States’ military threat, Cuba urgently needed Soviet weapons and equipment, and Castro had
no choice but to again seek help from the Soviet Union. Khrushchev took advantage of this opportunity to use Cuba as a
chip for contending with the United States. On 2 July 1962, Cuba and the Soviet Union reached an agreement: the Soviet
Union would secretly place nuclear missiles in Cuba. The frequency of contacts between Cuba and the Soviet Union as they
engaged in military trade was discovered very quickly by the United States. In July 1962, the United States used
reconnaissance satellites to promptly find that the Soviet Union had already delivered forty-two ballistic missiles to
Cuba, and was engaged in constructing more than ten launch sites; the United States was shocked. In the afternoon of 4 September 1962, Kennedy issued a warning: the United States would definitely
not tolerate having offensive weapons enter the borders of Cuba. Afterwards, he again issued a solemn statement and took
tit-for-tat measures to carry out a sea blockade and to quickly assembly the military in Florida and the Caribbean Sea,
using 200 ships to form an interdiction line. This set off the Cuban Missile Crisis, which shocked the world. Faced with
the United States’ intense reaction, the Soviet Union launched two satellites, on 17 and 20 October 1962, in order to
investigate what was actually going on; it was only after [Khrushchev] confirmed that the United States was completely
prepared that he was forced on 29 October to order the withdrawal of his missiles.

It can be seen from the Cuban Missile Crisis, which lasted thirteen days and was on the brink of nuclear war, that the
background to this crisis was still very closely tied to the US-Soviet competition in outer space. As for the Americans,
it was precisely through reconnaissance satellites and reconnaissance aircraft that they discovered that the Soviet
Union was secretly transporting missiles to Cuba, and it was also only through their reconnaissance satellites and
reconnaissance aircraft, that that they knew the details of the Soviet Union’s strategic missiles, strategic bombers,
and missile bases like the palm of their hand, that they boldly chose the tough measures of an armed blockade. As for
the Soviets, it also was only through ascertaining by their reconnaissance satellites the actual military deployments of
the United States that they ultimately helplessly withdrew their missiles from Cuba, under the conditions that the
United States promised not to use armed force to invade Cuba. Imagine, if there had not been reconnaissance satellite
photographs at that time to serve as evidence, the Soviets possibly would not have honestly bowed their heads and obeyed
the Americans orders, and a fearful nuclear war possibly would have come.

3. The use of space operations in the Indo-Pakistani War and the Middle East Wars

The South Asian subcontinent holds an important strategic location, and the Middle East region is known as a “powder
keg;” they have always been focal points of interest for strategists. The United States and the Soviet Union, for the
sake of their own interests in these regions, pulled out all the stops to ascertain and get a grip through various
channels on military intelligence about these areas of conflicts between India and Pakistan, the Arab countries and
Israel, and Israel and the Palestinians; most of this intelligence was obtained through reconnaissance satellites moving
in outer space.

In the December 1971 India-Pakistan War, the Soviet Union continuously launched reconnaissance satellites to engage in
“spy” activities, monitoring the military actions of US warships and the Pakistani air force. On 6 December, the Soviet
Union launched the Cosmos-463 satellite from its Tyuratam Base in order to carry out reconnaissance photography against Pakistan; on 10 and
16 December, the Soviet Union again launched two satellites, Cosmos-464 and Cosmos-466, respectively, from its Plesetsk
base. Their goals were to spy on the military intelligence of both sides in the Indo-Pakistani War.

In October 1973, the Arab countries and Israel launched the Fourth Middle East War. During the war, the United States
and the Soviet Union, each proceeding from its own strategic interests, launched nineteen and fifteen reconnaissance
satellites, one after the other, in the direction of the theater of war, in order to carry out closer reconnaissance
about the situations of the two sides in the war. Egypt and Syria made use of the intelligence regarding Israel that the
Soviet reconnaissance satellites obtained, and adopted more than 200 measures to deceive US satellites, in order to
launch an attack against Israel at lightning speed. And at the crucial moment, the United States provided Israel in a
timely manner with battlefield intelligence that its Big Bird photoreconnaissance satellite had obtained, so that Israel
turned defeat into victory and reversed at a single blow the position where it was on the defensive. This was the first
time that military reconnaissance satellites were used in actual combat, and it set a precedent for strategic
information assistance and support from outer space, thus raising the curtain on space operations.

On 16 June 1982, the Israeli military entered Lebanon. The Soviet Union’s Cosmos-1370 satellite was adjusted two days
later to a position where it could observe this gradually escalating war. Based on a similar goal, the Soviet Union’s
Cosmos-1377 satellite also flew through the space above the Middle East region from 12 to 16 June, and it transmitted
the intelligence that it obtained to Syria and other countries, which had no way to conduct aerial and space
reconnaissance, so that they could resist Israel.

On 1 November 1982, Iraq launched a new attack against Iran. Soviet spy satellites were quickly turned toward the space
above this region. When Cosmos-1419 flew past the battlefield on 5 November, it slowed down, and for the next two days
continued to reconnoiter. Cosmos-1421 also continually paid attention to every move and every action in the Persian
Gulf, providing intelligence about the combatant countries.

4. The use of space operations in the British-Argentine Falkland Islands War

On 4 March 1982, the Falkland Islands War, which caught the world’s attention, broke out between the United Kingdom and
Argentina; the start of the war originated in Argentina’s desire to take back the Falkland Islands from the hands of the
British. The British, on the other hand, wanted to recover these islands, which had just been occupied by Argentina. In
the background of this war, the United States and the Soviet Union staged an intense space intelligence battle. US relations with the United Kingdom were close, and intelligence from
satellite reconnaissance naturally was provided to the United Kingdom. And when the United States sanctioned exports of
cereals to the Soviet Union, Argentina sold cereals to the Soviet Union, so that it could be seen that the
SovietArgentine relationship was not an ordinary one; in order to thank Argentina for its timely assistance, the Soviet
Union used intelligence from satellite reconnaissance as a repayment.

After the Falkland Islands War broke out, the Soviet Union launched thirteen spy satellites, one after the other; eight
of these were radar satellites and five were communications satellites. [The Soviets] primarily used the Cosmos-1347
satellite to carry out reconnaissance and to obtain military intelligence about the British forces. From the departure
of the British task force from Portsmouth Harbor straight through to its arrival at the Falkland Islands, Soviet
satellites continually closely tracked and monitored it. Afterwards, the Soviet Union also launched military satellites;
among them, Cosmos1352 was especially for use in the Falkland Islands War.

At the same time that it supplied the Argentine military with intelligence, the Soviets also did not forget their own
country’s interests. On 2 April 1982, the British forces were about to land on the Falkland Islands; that day, the
Soviet Union launched the Cosmos1347 satellite, in order to reconnoiter how the war was progressing. This satellite was
a high-resolution reconnaissance satellite, and it twice flew past the area where the British task force was stationed –
Portsmouth Harbor. After two days, when the main forces of the task force had already completed their preparations for
war, and when they were going to put to sea the next morning, this satellite again flew over Portsmouth Harbor, with the
goal of wanting to clarify whether or not, as many people at that time had guessed, there was a nuclear submarine in the
fleet, and in order to make it easy to provide a military service to the Soviet military and the Warsaw Pact countries.
In regard to this, the United States was unwilling to show weakness. At this time, the United States used twenty-four
maritime surveillance satellites to provide intelligence support to the United Kingdom and to assist the United Kingdom
in sinking Argentina’s cruiser General Belgrado. The Soviet Union used thirty-seven reconnaissance satellites to provide
information support for Argentina; the Argentine air force utilized intelligence information provided by Soviet
reconnaissance satellites to use an Exocet missile to unexpectedly sink a fairly advanced British missile cruiser [sic],
the Sheffield. The Falkland Islands War ultimately came to an end, with Argentina losing because of a great disparity in
actual military strengths, but the US-Soviet space battle still continued.

# II. The practical applications of space operations in the middle period...191

The several local wars since 1991 have exhibited a great many characteristics that differ from previous wars, so that
the shape of war is silently undergoing fundamental and comprehensive changes. Of these, the change that has most caught
people’s attention is that military applications in the space sphere have already developed to a brand-new stage; space
strengths have begun to comprehensively get involved in local wars, forming a new form of operations.

1. Applications of space operations in the Gulf War

The 1991 Gulf War was a classic example of high-tech local warfare, as well as a landmark example where space operations
were used to initially form combat strengths. The multinational force headed by the United States, in order to gain
victory in the war, made use of space strengths that had become rudimentarily mature in order to provide support-style
operations throughout the entire course [of the war], using more than seventy satellites, 118 mobile satellite ground
stations, twelve commercial satellite terminals, eighty-one satellite information switches, 329 telephone circuits,
thirty message circuits, 30,000 radio frequencies, and 40,000 computers to establish a huge space information
collection, transmission, processing, and distribution system. For the first time, it showed the world the powerful
information support capability of space strengths, and it had an enormous impact on the course of the war and made
important contributions to victory in the Gulf War. After the war, when the US military summarized its experience in the
Gulf War, it believed that speaking in a certain sense, the Gulf War was “the first space war” in human history, and
that “the Gulf War proved that space weapons systems have become an indispensable part of the system of modern
operations, regardless of whether this is in strategic actions or in tactical actions.” The various kinds of military
satellites (see Table 7-1) that the United States used in the Gulf War provided information support for operations at
all times and spaces, in all time domains, and in all directions, in a highly efficient manner. The four great systems
that they formed, for space reconnaissance and surveillance, space communications support, space navigation and
positioning, and space weather support, provided high-quality, urgently needed, and reliable information for operations;
this was used on a large scale by the multinational force in the war, and it vigorously supported joint operations on
the ground.

Table 7-1: Statistics for the Various Types of Military Satellites Used by the US Military in the Gulf War

<html><body><table><tr><td>Type of Satellite</td><td>Name</td><td>Number (of satellites)</td></tr><tr><td
rowspan="3">Imaging Reconnaissance Satellite</td><td>Advanced Keyhole KH-11</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Keyhole
KH-11</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Lacrosse</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Navigation and Early Warning
Satellite</td><td>DSP</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">Electronic Reconnaissance
Satellite</td><td>Vortex</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Magnum</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>
Jumpseat</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Ocean Surveillance Satellite</td><td>White Cloud</td><td>12 (4
clusters)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="6">Communications Satellite</td><td>Defense Satellite Communications System
(DSCS-2)</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Defense Satellite Communications System (DSCS-3)</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Fleet
Satellite Communications System
(Fltsatcom-5)</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>Leasat-3</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Syncom</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Satellite
data systems</td><td>14</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Weather Satellite</td><td>Block
5D-3</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>NOAA</td><td>Multiple satellites</td></tr><tr><td>Navigation and Positioning
Satellite</td><td>GPS-2A</td><td>18</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Geodetic
Satellite</td><td>Landsat-4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Landsat-5</td><td>2</td></tr></table></body></html>

In the war, in order to ensure communications needs, the United States felt that the two DSCS communications satellite
strengths above the Indian Ocean were too insubstantial, so it also especially moved one of the DSCS satellites in the
Defense Satellite Communications System above the Pacific Ocean to the Indian Ocean, in order to take over the task of
communications for the US military in the Gulf region. It also had three Fleet Communications satellites and one
Leasat-3 assume the task of naval communications. And the British military used the Skynet-4 satellite, and the French military used Syracuse military communications circuits on the Telecommunications-1A and the Telecommunications-1C.
Satellite communications made up eighty-five percent of the total amount of internal and external communications in the
theater of war.

In order to provide operational units with precise navigation and positioning information, the United States deployed
eighteen GPS-2A global navigation and positioning system satellites in outer space. The ground operations units,
aircraft, ships, and special operations units of the multinational force had approximately 5,500 military positioning
and navigation receivers as well as 10,000 civilian receivers; these could receive highly precise three-dimensional
navigation and positioning signals for more than twenty hours every day. GPS receivers were installed on
precision-guided weapons, and these were effective in enhancing the accuracy of the weapons’ strikes and their attack
capabilities. Assisted by these accurate navigation and positioning signals, F-16 [Fighting Falcon] fighters, B-52
[Stratofortress] bombers, and RC-135 reconnaissance aircraft could carry out their military missions accurately and
without error in all weathers; tank formations could carry out precision movements in the desert zones that had no
landform characteristics; minesweeping units could safely pass through minefields and accurately determine the locations
of mines in order to make it easy to destroy these; and supply transportation vehicles could find combat personnel in
the desert and provide them with supplies. In naval operations and in supporting busy ocean shipping, GPS enabled naval
ships and the large number of commercial vessels carrying supplies to get accurate navigation and positioning.

The multinational force used imagery reconnaissance satellites to carry out all-weather reconnaissance against important
targets like Iraq’s command centers, airfields, Scud missile launchers, air defense missile batteries, and
communications nodes, and they used “land” satellites and two French SPOT satellites to do general surveys with rather
low resolution over broad areas; the information that was obtained played an important role in large-scale air raids and
ground operations. Imagery reconnaissance also had the task of evaluating and appraising the results of bombing and
destruction against targets, and they provided a basis for determining the time when ground units would launch assaults.

The multinational force used electronic reconnaissance satellites and other land, sea, and air reconnaissance platforms
together to create a three-dimensional reconnaissance intelligence system to closely reconnoiter Iraq’s electromagnetic
spectrum activities, to collect its signal characteristics and parameters, to ascertain the various frequency band
signals, and to thus carry out support for electronic warfare operations. Electronic reconnaissance satellites listened
in on the Iraqi military’s most important radio communications channels, including the channels used by Iraqi President
Saddam [Hussein] and senior commanders in the Republican Guard and the channels used by the Iraqi military’s military command organizations’ communications network, so that the multinational force was able to
stay abreast of any major military actions by the Iraqi military.

The United States used two Defense Support Program (NSP) [sic] early warning satellites to detect launch conditions for
Iraqi Scud missiles and to provide four to five minutes of early warning to residents in Israel and to the units
deployed in Saudi Arabia (Scud missiles’ flight time was about seven minutes). At the same time, they provided crucially
important early warning data for Patriot anti-missile systems to intercept [the Scuds], thus creating a precedent for
ground interception weapons to carry out actual combat in missile interception.

The Gulf War made the US military become profoundly aware of the important role that space strengths have in assisting
and supporting campaign and tactical actions. However, US military persons also realized that although the Gulf War
could be called the “first space war,” this was only a “space war for which there were no preparations.” The reason was
that all of the space systems that the US military used at that time had been designed for carrying out strategic
missions during the Cold War and were unable to fully adapt to the military needs of local wars and regional conflicts.
It was still necessary to carefully study and improve them, so that these space warfare systems would be able to better
serve the high-tech local wars of then and the future.

2. The use of space operations in the Bosnian War

The Bosnian War that that broke out in 1995 was another high-tech local war following the Gulf War. The applications of
military space strengths developed to an even deeper level; in particular, a major step was taken in handling the
uncertainties and delays of battlefield information.

The US military established a set of mirror simulation equipment {lingjing fangzhen shebei} at Wei-ya-nuo Air Base16 in
Italy, using images captured by military reconnaissance satellites and civilian remote sensing satellites in order to
create a threedimensional visible model of the terrain in Bosnia-Herzegovina, so that the battlefield information that
was obtained reached the level of real-time comprehensive integration and so that it was possible to extract detailed
crucial information.

The United States also directly used broadcast satellites and communications satellites to form a new battlefield
information transmission link, thus greatly improving the speed of information transmission and enhancing the
effectiveness of main battle weapons and equipment in operations. So that combatant personnel would be able to receive
crucial information in real-time, the US military deployed a Bosnian Command and Control Augmentation system (BC2A) at
its European headquarters. This system consisted of two parts: a Joint Broadcasting Service system (JBS) and a Very
Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) network. The JBS received visible-light, infrared, or synthetic aperture radar images
from Predator unmanned aerial vehicles or other reconnaissance aircraft and transmitted these through international
communications satellites to a US military unmanned aerial vehicle base in Hungary, after which they were again
transmitted through international communications satellites to a US military air force base in England, and were
ultimately transmitted through a fiber optic cable to the Pentagon. After the Pentagon processed this information, it
transmitted it via JBS to the US military commander in Bosnia. Television images taken in the air above
Bosnia-Herzegovina by unmanned aerial vehicles were transmitted through the intelligence data links described above to
the Pentagon in the United Sates, with a delay of about one second. The VSAT network of the BC2A system had two-way
communications capabilities; it connected more than fifty headquarters in the theater of war, and every commander could
receive information through the VSAT network and could also transmit information to the Pentagon. Sending a photograph
to every user through the BC2A system generally took only five to ten seconds, whereas it required more than an hour
during the Gulf War period. This shows that the US military had absorbed the experiences of the Gulf War and that it had
done a great deal of work in the aspects of how to have space operations weapons and equipment meet the needs of
high-tech local wars.

3. Applications of space operations to the Kosovo Campaign

The excellent displays of space information support in the previous several local wars caused the US military to pay
more attention and to increase the intensity of its theoretical research and actual applications. During the Kosovo
Campaign, which took place from 24 March to 9 June 1999, US and other NATO units jointly deployed seventyeight
satellites of various kinds in close to twenty spaceflight systems (see Table 7-2), providing NATO’s multinational units
with such important operations information support as comprehensive reconnaissance, surveillance, communications, early
warning, navigation, positioning, and weather. Because the NATO units controlled command of space, they always held the
initiative in this war.

During the entire course of the war, the United States’ space systems provided information support to the NATO group,
from beginning to end. In Operation Allied Force, where NATO raided Yugoslavia by air, the United States alone mobilized more than fifty reconnaissance and other
satellites, providing target information for the air raid actions and information for evaluating the effects of
operations. NATO’s battlefield intelligence systems were an integrated intelligence reconnaissance and surveillance
system composed of sea, land, air, space, and electronic systems. In this system, the United States’ space information
systems played a decisive role, and they included photograph and radar reconnaissance satellites, missile early warning
satellites, ocean surveillance satellites, weather satellites, global positioning satellites, and electronic
reconnaissance satellites. Satellite performance reached unprecedented levels, and the resolution rate of space
reconnaissance could reach 0.1 meter and could detect submarines forty meters below the surface of the water and tanks
concealed below three to five meters of sand; the error of its positioning of electromagnetic radiation sources was
within thirty meters. “Comprehensive missile early warning” systems satellites could provide twenty-five to thirty
minutes of early warning time against land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles and fifteen minutes of early
warning time against submarine-launched ballistic missiles.

# Table 7-2: Statistics on the Satellites Used by the US military and its Allied

# Militaries during the Kosovo Campaign

<html><body><table><tr><td>Type of Satellites</td><td>Name</td><td>Number (of satellites)</td></tr><tr><td
rowspan="6">Reconnaissance Satellite</td><td>Lacrosse radar imaging satellite</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Advanced
Keyhole KH-11 optoelectronic imaging satellite</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>Helios-1A optical imaging satellite
(France)</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Small-scale optoelectronic imaging reconnaissance
satellite</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>Signals intelligence satellite</td><td>Several</td></tr><tr><td>Electronic
reconnaissance satellite (Magnum, Vortex, Orion, Mercury, etc.)</td><td>Several</td></tr><tr><td
rowspan="8">Communications Satellite</td><td>Fleet Satellite Communications System</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Defense
Satellite Communications System (DSCS)</td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td>UHF follow-on communications satellite (UFO-
9)</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>Leasat</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Tracking and data relay
satellite</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Milstar communications satellite</td><td>Several</td></tr><tr><td>Skynet 4A
communications satellite (British)</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Syracuse communications satellite
(France)</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>NATO-4 communication satellite</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Navigation
Satellite</td><td>GPS global satellite navigation system</td><td>24</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">Meteorological
Satellite</td><td>Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP)</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>MOAA-10/12/14/15
meteorological satellite</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Meteosat (European)</td><td>2</td></tr></table></body></html>

In providing reconnaissance satellite information assistance and support, not only did the United States have the most
reconnaissance satellites, but their quality was also best. Of them, there were two US Lacrosse radar imaging satellites
costing $\$ 1$ billion, three upgraded Keyhole-11 digital imaging transmission satellites costing more than $\$ 1$
billion, and large numbers of meteorological and ocean monitoring satellites. These artificial satellites, especially
used for information reconnaissance, were able to reconnoiter Yugoslav radio communications and radar facilities, in order to intercept various kinds of radio signals and signal
parameters and to determine the accurate locations of their radio broadcasting stations and radar stations. In
particular, the US military’s Lacrosse reconnaissance satellites were the only military radar imaging satellites in the
world; the space resolution of their satellite-borne synthetic aperture radars reached 0.3 to 1 meter.

The electronic warfare that NATO units waged in the Kosovo Campaign went down to the bottom of the sea and up into outer
space, filling up all of natural space. In outer space, the United States and the other European nations in NATO all had
highperformance electronic reconnaissance satellites, which could carry out electronic offensive and defensive missions
for their electronic warfare aircraft, as well as provide real-time accurate electronic intelligence for assault fleets
to carry out bombing missions. Prior to the war, the United States’ electronic reconnaissance satellites, in full-time
domain, monitored changes in the Yugoslav electromagnetic environment, gaining large amounts of electronic warfare
intelligence needed for operations against Yugoslavia. During the war, NATO electronic reconnaissance satellites with
advanced performance were able to carry out reconnaissance missions night and day; in particular, the United States
Lacrosse radar imaging reconnaissance satellites could carry out reconnaissance in all weathers and at all times, on
average providing the allied forces with reconnaissance results of ground conditions once every 180 minutes, thus
overcoming the drawback of visible light cameras where these were unable to take pictures on dark nights and cloudy
days. This real-time electronic warfare intelligence support system for the NATO units, which integrated land, sea, air,
and space, overcame the weak point of electronic warfare intelligence support where each link was disconnected, thus
enhancing the timeliness, accuracy, and operational effectiveness of intelligence support.

# III. The recent practical applications of space operations...197

After the Kosovo Campaign, people in the world more soberly realized the important position and role that space
strengths would have in future wars. The various countries actively planned the development of space technology and the
buildup of space strengths, closely centered on each of their strategic objectives, and space operations thereby entered
a new period of rapid development.

1. The applications of space operations in the Afghanistan War

The Afghanistan counterterrorism war was the first war of the $2 1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } } \cdot$ century. On 5 October
2001, the United States launched a counterterrorism war [called] Operation Enduring Freedom, focused on [Osama] bin
Laden and his al Qaeda organization as well as the Afghanistan Taliban armed forces that had sheltered and harbored
them. During this local war, the US military again staged tricks where the world joined hands for the battle. In order
to fight this asymmetric war, the United States deployed fifty military satellites, organized a space intelligence
information network, and strove to confront an adversary who had no choice but to fight; it also needed to maintain its
superiority in space information systems, thereby doing everything possible to support the ground units’ operations.
This thus resulted in the applications of space strengths again undergoing new developments. This was prominently
manifested in [the following].

First, military and civilian space-based information resources were integrated into a space network. Although the Afghan
forces were nowhere near as strong as those of Iraq, the US military still paid a great deal of attention to
counterterrorism operations. On the one hand, just as in previous wars, it launched and adjusted the deployment of
satellites before the war; on the other hand, it did all it could to requisition civilian and commercial satellites and
to have them serve in common the ground units’ operations. Two days before the war began, the United Sates launched an
Advanced Keyhole KH-11 optical imaging reconnaissance satellite, which together with two similar satellites that had
been launched earlier formed a constellation and which carried out reconnaissance that covered Afghanistan in all
weathers. At the same time, these were linked with three lowresolution Lacrosse radar imaging satellites, forming a
global satellite intelligence network, especially providing intelligence support services to operations in the
Afghanistan theater of war. In addition, the Pentagon exclusively bought up mapping materials of the entire Afghan
theater of war that Space Imaging Company’s Ikonos commercial satellite had photographed, and it coordinated with the
French Government through diplomatic channels to forbid that country’s SPOT imaging company from selling satellite
images associated with the Afghanistan theater of war with a resolution of close to ten meters that were photographed
after 8 October 2001. In addition to using and controlling civilian and commercial satellites, the US Department of
Defense also used the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Earth Observation-1 satellite to provide the US
military with hyperspectral images of targets in the Afghanistan region before and after bombings in order to evaluate
the battle results. The terrain image materials obtained by the Shuttle Radar Topography plan that NASA carried out in
February also played a role in the Afghanistan operations, providing GPS-guided weapons with precise elevation data.

Second, having absorbed the lessons of the Gulf War and the Kosovo Campaign, it strengthened its measures for
interfering with the global positioning system (GPS) and for countering interference. On 20 October 2001, a spokesman at
the US Air Force’s Schriever Base indicated that the US military possessed the ability to selectively jam GPS signals in
certain regions, without affecting the accuracy of its own military GPS signals. As regards measures for countering GPS
jamming, the US Department of Defense’s Advanced Research Projects Agency, in its research on a GPS virtual satellite program, was able to use a “simulator”
installed on an unmanned aerial vehicle or on the ground to construct a virtual GPS constellation; the high-powered
encrypted GPS signal that it transmitted suppressed the enemy’s jammer signal.

Third, the precision-guided weapons with space-based navigation and positioning information support displayed their
prowess. After the war, the US Department of Defense revealed that there were close to 1,500 various types of ammunition
dropped in Afghanistan; about fifty-five percent of them were precision-guided weapons, whereas in the Kosovo Campaign,
precision-guided weapons made up about thirty-five percent of the number dropped. Looking at things in general, in [the
Afghanistan] War, the United States followed up on its successful experiences in the Gulf War and the Kosovo Campaign by
fully utilizing space strengths to conduct a withering attack against the Taliban regime and bin Laden’s terrorist
forces. Although the United States’ methods were suspected of overkill, still, from another aspect they fully proved
that after entering the $2 1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } } \cdot$ century, no matter what scale a war had and regardless of the
differences between the two sides’ strengths, and regardless of the geographical environment of operations, the space
battlefield would dominate the entire battlefield, and space strengths would play a crucially important role.

2. The applications of space operations in the Iraq War

On 20 March 2003, the United States adopted a dangerous “preemptive strike” strategy to carry out unilateral actions and
again attacked a sovereign country, Iraq, ignoring the opposition that the people of the world had in common; it
circumvented the UN and instigated a few followers like the United Kingdom. Within a short period of time it had
overthrown the Saddam regime and had again put on a farce where it relied upon armed force to display its hegemonism.

In the Iraq War, there were many reasons why the US military was able to quickly win the war; among these, a complete
system of satellites played an extremely important role. A relevant US military expert recently issued an article in
which he pointed out that “The reason the United States has been able to successfully use armed force throughout the
globe was that it has an unbeatable group of satellites, which is able to carry out immediate communications, powerful
surveillance, and precise positioning. For close to ten years, the Pentagon has been able to completely merge these
resources into its operational actions, and so every military conflict that the United States has launched nowadays has
inevitably been an aerospace war; even wars conducted in the desolate and uninhabited wilds of Afghanistan and Iraq have
been no exception.” The words of the American have given away their hegemonistic mentality and their ambition to
dominate outer space. In the Iraq War, just as in the Gulf War, Kosovo Campaign, and Afghanistan War that previously
occurred, the US military mobilized almost all its military satellite systems, and it also requisitioned some orbiting
commercial satellites to provide combatant units with important support to operations, like reconnaissance,
surveillance, communications, early warning, navigation, positioning, and meteorology. There was a wall in the US Air
Force’s Joint Air Warfare Center in the Gulf that formed a huge screen with continuously flickering and constantly
changing pictures, showing the precise location of every US warplane in the air above Iraq. Throughout the entire war,
as soon as there was a confirmed enemy military target on the air warfare center’s screen, the commander would
immediately order warplanes to go bomb it, and the key reason for this [ability] was the important role that satellite
intelligence played. In the Iraq War, the US military deployed more than 100 satellites; it could be said that this was
the largest number of satellites that were used in any of the several recent high-tech local wars. Throughout the entire
time of the war, more than ninety percent of information on the battlefield was provided by satellites. They were able
to deliver positioning data to the GPS on ships, aircraft, tanks, and other platforms; they were able to deliver
intelligence to units’ portable computers; and they were able to deliver satellite images to weather stations along the
lines furthest to the front, bringing into play their role of “clairvoyance and omniscience” in an effective manner. In
the Iraq War, ninety percent of the bombs used by the joint US-British forces were so-called “smart bombs;” these bombs
were guided either by lasers or by GPS signals sent by satellites. But in the Gulf War in 1991, only ten percent of
weapons were precision guided; thus GPS had become part of the core of modern high-tech weapons. According to reports,
the final tracking and attack that the US military’s B-1B [Lancer] bomber did against Saddam [used] information provided
by satellites and targets that [the satellites] displayed.

# Section 2: The Main Characteristics of the Practical Applications of Space Operations...200

The practical applications of space operations have already followed a journey lasting several decades, and in every
historical stage that they have gone through, each stage has presented differing characteristics of practical
applications because of differences in military technology, operational needs, weapons and equipment, and the state of
warfare. In general, the extensions and expansions of national interests, the powerful pull of the needs of warfare, and
continuing innovations in science and technology have been major motivators pushing the applications of space operations
to rapidly develop and quickly be put into practice. Through a comprehensive analysis of the practical applications of
space operations in the various historical stages, it is not only possible to summarize the historical experiences of
space operations, but it is also possible to provide lessons and guidance for the future development of space
operations, which will have major significance for winning space operations under future informationized conditions.

# I. Characteristics of the practical applications of space operations in the initial period...200

As regards the initial period of the practical applications of space operations, although people at a conscious level
had a certain degree of understanding of the major impact that space operations would have on warfare, still, as regards
specific practical activities in operations, they could not get more sophisticated weapons and equipment for space
operations and so it was difficult for technical support to meet the needs of operations. Therefore, during this stage,
space operations primarily were applied at the strategic level and were limited only to applications to the nuclear
deterrence strategies of the two superpowers, the United States and the Soviet Union. They provided enormously important
information support for the great powers in resolving major political crises; moreover, to a certain extent they
partially met the needs of conventional warfare for battlefield information and strengthened the operational
effectiveness of combatant units. So this was the period in which the prototype of space operations appeared. In the
initial period, the main characteristics of the practical applications of space operations were [as follows].

1. An emphasis on applications at the strategic level

As people’s understanding that outer space would be the “high ground” of future warfare incrementally deepened, the
concept of command of space gradually became married to military strategy. Applications of military space technology to
seize military superiority and victory in operations became important details for the various military powers as they
planned for strategic issues. The two hegemons – the United States and the Soviet Union – played important military
games during this period, treating the military applications of space as important chips to be played in the practical
process of confrontation between the two great camps, and they engaged in overall planning of operational issues
strategically. Although military space technology was still at a starting period “where it was just beginning to bud,”
and [although] it was still only limited to space reconnaissance information support applications as regards its
specific applications, this application was entirely a consideration at the strategic level, and what it stressed was
strategic applications in gaining victory.

2. A focus on the deterrence role

In the Cold War, the military powers that confronted each other treated space military deterrence as an important way to
resolve the issue of how to implement the applications of space strategy and to prevent the appearance strategically of
being “big but empty” and tactically of being “mysterious but imaginary.” Therefore, space military deterrence also
became a primary form of practical applications of space operations during this period. Because nuclear deterrence had
become a major “trump card” for confrontations between the great powers at this time, given the premise that neither
side dared to lightly take a shot, space deterrence had room in which to operate, becoming a means whose role was
equivalent to nuclear deterrence. Therefore, the two opposing sides actively relied upon space technology and spared no
effort to adopt real measures in order to deter their opponent. It was precisely because the great powers used nuclear
deterrence and space deterrence together at this stage that the Cold War was prevented from [taking] steps that would
slide into a “nuclear winter” and that a great many major international strategic crises were diffused.

# 3. A single means of use

During the initial stage of carrying out space operations, because the development of military space technology had just
begun, the means that could be used in space operations were quite limited; basically, they were simply used for space
reconnaissance and surveillance. The limitations of this single means meant that the needs of space operations involved
“ideas but no ways of carrying them out.” It was precisely because the means of space operations at that period were
limited, [because] the needs of space operations were also quite pressing, and [because] meeting these needs also meant
meeting the needs of nations’ major strategies, that developing diverse means of space operations became inevitable in
the rapid development of subsequent military space technology.

# II. The characteristics of practical applications of space operations in the middle period...201

As the applications of space operations developed to the middle period, clear differences already existed with the
initial period: the focus in the applications of space operations gradually switched from the strategic level to the
campaign and tactical level, and the role of the space battlefield became extraordinarily evident. For example, getting
information, carrying out information warfare, deploying troop strengths, and launching firepower all primarily relied
upon space support, and space weapons systems became important pillars for precision attacks, precision engagements, and
precision, real-time information support, and this resulted in a clear display of space confrontations. At the same time as this, a system of theories of
space operations gradually took shape that corresponded to space operations strengths. Against this background, the
three US services’ space commands and the Joint Space Command were established, one after the other; the mission of the
US Air Force was further clarified as space control, force application, force enhancement, and space [forces] support;
and space operations gradually began to stress deployment of space strengths. There was a push to use the outer space
environment to reinforce ground strengths. To sum things up, there were the following three main characteristics.

1. Strategic, campaign, and tactical applications tended to merge

As the shape of warfare evolved, modern operations’ space military requirements continually grew, and space operations
also were incrementally transformed from the strategic level toward a direction that covered each level: strategic,
campaign, and tactical. The several recent local wars have shown that space operations weapons systems play an
indispensably important role, from responding to sudden incidents and commanding joint operations by services and
service arms to seizing battlefield information superiority, supporting land, sea, and air battlefield operations, and
pushing the process of war forward, and then to transmitting command and control orders and evaluating the effects of
operations; they have played the role of a “central nervous system” and a troop strengths multiplier. Space operations’
widespread use at the strategic, campaign, and tactical levels as well as their unparalleled performance have
highlighted the dominant role of information, and this has provided the most direct impetus for the transformation from
the mechanized state of warfare to the informationized state of warfare.

2. The focus in the state of warfare developed toward holistic operations

The practical applications of space operations during this period show that using the battlefield reconnaissance,
surveillance, navigation, early warning, and communications services provided by outer space’s unique battlefield
advantage of a bird’s-eye view of the globe can effectively carry out real-time exchange and sharing of operations
information by land-based, sea-based, airborne, and space-based operational platforms and by various types of personnel,
thus providing highly effective and massive amounts of information support for the many services and service arms,
multidimensional operations spaces, and multiple battlefield operations, so that overall operational capabilities in
local wars under high-tech conditions are clearly strengthened. This led modern warfare to develop in the direction of
joint operations with information systems as their support and where the five dimensions of land, sea, air, space, and
electronics are integrated. Moreover, it became a primary developmental trend for then and for a period of time in the
future.

3. Means tended toward diversification, and the scope of applications widened

We discover through a vertical comparison that the applications of space operations during this period incrementally
expanded from the earliest time, where a single means dominated – strategic reconnaissance – to the integrated
application of multiple means, including reconnaissance and surveillance, communications relay, navigation and
positioning, meteorological observation, military mapping, missile early warning, and electronic warfare. The level of
battlefield one-way transparency was greatly reinforced, and the side that had fairly strong space information
capabilities possessed the information superiority environment to fully perceive battlefield spaces, to carry out an
integrated “seamless link” for the many types of operational units and informationized weapons that were dispersed in
differing spatial locations, and to thus ensure the accuracy, rapidity, great effectiveness, and interoperability of
command and control, thereby greatly enhancing the effects of weapons and equipment and their integrated joint attack
capabilities.

# III. The characteristics of the practical applications of space operations in the recent period...203

Overall, this stage of space operations apparently still primarily consists of providing information support to the
land, sea, and air battlefields, in order to get the effect of multiplying the ground forces’, naval, and air force
operational strengths, but the comprehensive seizing of command of space, the development of offensive space weapons
systems, and the carrying out of global long-range rapid attacks against the earth are daily becoming a new direction of
development for space operations. In particular, the United States’ space military superiority, which is far ahead [of
everyone else], is unrivaled by any other country in the world, but the United States still focuses on continually
enhancing its effectiveness in actual warfare and does anything it can to seek innovative developments. One after
another, it has organized a series of Schriever space operations war games, so that the theoretical studies and
practical applications of military space technology have entered a healthy track of cyclical development. Now and for a
period of time in the future, the main characteristics of the practical applications of space operations are [as
follows].

1. Reliance on space-based information is stronger

The several recent local wars have shown that by providing information support and by being combined with traditional
land, sea, and air operational strengths, space military systems have already displayed their incomparable strategic and
tactical value. In other words, only by being closely combined with outer space and [only] through the joint actions of
operational strengths and their information systems that are spread out on land, sea, air, and space battlefields, is it
possible for military actions on land, at sea, and in the air to smoothly achieve their predetermined goals in
operations and [to carry out] the missions of their operations. For a fairly long period of time in the future, the
enormous military value of space-based systems will still be reflected in their reinforcement of surface military
strengths. Regardless of whether it is land warfare, sea warfare, or air warfare, these will rely heavily on the
assistance and support that space-based systems provide in the areas of early warning, surveillance, tracking,
positioning, navigation, meteorology, mapping, and evaluating the results of attacks. As the state of integrated
five-dimensional warfare on land, at sea, in the air, in space, and electronics develops, and particularly with the
emergence of new means of space operations, the level of this reliance will only intensify; it definitely will not ease
up.

2. The systems nature of operations will be distinctly increased

It can be discovered through the fog of the several recent wars that by using space military information systems to
ascertain battlefield conditions in near-real-time, by obtaining and transmitting the various kinds of information for
the entire battlefield, and by organically combining reconnaissance, command, control, communications, intelligence,
attack, and support, it is possible to form an integrated comprehensive information network system, and to thus connect
the multidimensional battlefields of land, sea, air, space, and electronics into an interrelated integrated complex,
thereby turning the confrontation between the two combatants into a confrontation between systems. Victory or defeat in
war no longer is determined by one or a certain number of systems, but rather is determined by the effectiveness of the
entire system of operations. As space technology has continually developed and with its widespread applications in the
military sphere, the two hostile sides and especially the side that is on the strategic attack will strive to seize
command of space or partial command of space, so as to provide vigorous support to its military actions on the land,
sea, and air battlefields; this will highlight even more [the fact that] future struggles to seize command of space will
be along the nature of a confrontation between systems.

3. The development of equipment for space confrontations will accelerate

As future informationized warfare becomes increasingly reliant upon space systems, military confrontations in space with
the goal of “ensuring your own side’s use [of space] and preventing the enemy from using it” will be unavoidable, and
this will impel the rapid development of equipment and technology for space confrontations. Despite limitations arising
from research and development funding, crucial technology, and international treaties on arms controls, the main
military space powers have already formed the ability for actual operations, through adopting stratagems that “blend
antisatellite [operations] with anti-missile [operations]” and developing “hard kill” weapons against low-orbiting
satellites. They have adopted the stratagems of “mastering capabilities and having cautious deployment,” and they have
incrementally made breakthroughs in crucial anti-satellite for such new-concept weapons as lasers and highpowered
microwaves, but they have not rushed to deploy these. At the same time that they have energetically developed and
improved “hard kill” anti-satellite weapons, they have also spared no efforts to develop “soft kill” anti-satellite
weapons for jamming satellite communications links, as well as ones like micro-satellite weapons, in order to form
comprehensive capabilities for space confrontations.

# Section 3: The Current State of Space Operations and Developmental Trends...204

Space operations are a new form of operations that has appeared in the process of protecting security in space and
seizing the international strategic high ground; their goal is to get the ability to control space or the ability to
damage the enemy’s control of space. As reliance on space operations capabilities have continually grown, the world’s
major space nations in recent years have each drafted or adjusted developmental strategies, developmental plans, and
developmental objectives for space, centered on the increasingly intense competition and confrontation for space. This
clearly has accelerated the pace of building up space strengths, centered on [the fact that] there has been a continual
increase in major incidents occurring in space security, as represented by the 2008 US earth-based kinetic energy
interception of a satellite and by the 2009 collision between a US [satellite] and a Russian satellite (Figure 7-1). In
future informationized wars, space operations will permeate each level – tactical, campaign, and strategic – of military
action carried out by joint operations units. It can be foreseen that in the near future, the forms, scopes, and effects
of actions in space operations will undergo major changes, and space strengths will become important strategic strengths
for defending national security and winning future wars.

# 1155 hours Eastern time, 10 February 2009

[Image: Missing image]
Figure 7-1: Schematic Diagram of Collision between a US [Satellite] and a Russian Satellite

# I. The current state of space operations...206

During the Cold War, although the United States and the Soviet Union both realized the importance of outer space, their
military activities in outer space remained highly restrained, and the international space setup generally existed in a
relatively balanced state. After the Soviet Union collapsed, the United States consistently maintained its relative
superiority in space, and the international space setup subsequently took shape before the world in the form of four
powers – the United States, Russia, the European Union, and China – in a multipolar competition. Particularly in the
past few years, practices in the several high-tech local wars have brought the various nations of the world to a full
realization that outer space is the source of various kinds of information, and struggling for control of outer space
turned into an important prerequisite condition for winning victory in informationized wars. Looking at things in
general, this situation is relatively stable, but given the impact of the left-over legacy of hegemonism, of the rapidly
expanding gap in technology, and of the gradual increase in confrontational factors, a new round of “enclosure
movements” has appeared in the sphere of space, with the various space military powers, represented by the United States
and Russia, investing large amounts of manpower, materiel, and finances to prepare their space strengths in order to lay
a firm foundation for winning and holding absolute superiority in future space operations. Therefore, the various
countries of the world are paying special attention to the struggle in outer space, and are hurrying to prepare for
carrying out space operations. Currently, the development of space weapons and equipment has become an important detail
as the various countries develop their military equipment.

1. The United States

Taking an overall view of the several local wars in recent years where the United States dominated, such as the 1991
Gulf War, the 1999 Kosovo Campaign, the 2001 Afghanistan War, and the 2003 Iraq War, the US military has always relied
on its powerful space information support system to win rapid and decisive victories. Despite this, as a major power in
the world and with first-rate military strengths, the United States has for many years sought military superiority in
many spheres. In particular, it has always viewed the search for an ability to be far in advance of other countries in
space as being an important national security interest. Therefore, the United States currently is preparing in all
directions for space operations.

First, it has explicitly proposed a strategy for controlling space. In January 2001, the Commission to Assess United
States National Security Space Management and Organization issued a report that pointed out that the United States’
increasing reliance on space, and the fragility that this produces, require that US national security give priority consideration to focusing on upholding its space interests, and that the United States should study operational
thoughts, concepts, and abilities for space operations. In June 2003, the US Secretary of the Air Force publicly
proposed that “No country or organization (to include the United States’ allies) can use space resources to develop
military intelligence or other military goals without obtaining US approval.” In August 2006, US President George W.
Bush signed a new National Space Policy that stressed that the core of US space policy needed to switch from “peaceful
uses of space” to “space security,” that explicitly pointed out that “Strengthening US leadership in space ensures that
space abilities can serve US national security, homeland security, and diplomatic policy when necessary,” and that “The
United States will prevent hostile forces from entering space.” In February 2011, the US Department of Defense formally
issued a National Security Space Strategy report that believed that as global science and technology continuously
develop and as some other countries’ space capabilities continually strengthen, the United States’ space technology
superiority will accordingly incrementally weaken. In order to maintain its superiority in space military forces, the
United States should vigorously strengthen its construction and application of space intelligence capabilities. It can
be clearly seen from a series of policy documents issued by the United States and from the words of US political
notables, that the United States has explicitly proposed a strategy to control space and that it is trying to control
the earth by controlling space and to maintain and strengthen its dominant position in the world. In other words,
seizing command of space, seeking hegemony in space, and maintaining absolute superiority in space will always be a core
idea as succeeding US administrations draft space policies.

Second, it has intensified its development of space operations technology and equipment. During the Cold War, the United
States already treated space operations weapons as an important component part of its strategic nuclear deterrence
strengths, and it energeticall developed them. In recent years, as the status of space strategy has constantly risen,
the United States has again intensified its development of space operations technology and equipment. On the one hand,
it has devised ways to improve the survival and defensive capabilities of spacecraft systems; researched and developed
stealth satellites, microsatellites, and even nanosatellites; and taken measures for satellites to resist jamming and to
adjust their orbits, thus improving the survival capabilities of satellite systems. On the other hand, it had
accelerated the pace of its research and development and testing of space operations weapons. Equipment that is being
researched include land-based, air-based, and space-based laser weapons; land-based and space-based kinetic energy
weapons; space-based weapons systems for attacking the ground; and space operations flight vehicles. On 22 April 2010
local time in the United States, the world’s first space plane, the X-37B (Figure 7-2), ascended from Cape Canaveral in
Florida for its first test flight. Looking at developments in spaceflight technology, this was another milestone
development in mankind’s conquest of outer space. Because no other country in the world today has mastered similarly
mature technological equipment, the success of its test flight greatly enhanced the United States’ military power and
technological superiority for dominating space. Taking advantage of this technological high ground, the United States
will firmly dominate command of space in outer space or outside of the atmosphere, and thus tightly lock down the “gates
of life” for military defense and future operations by Russia and other nations – that is, satellite relay and secure
transmission of information and data. Therefore, just as the former director of the Center for Defense Information’s
Space Security Project, Theresa Hitchens, said, “If the X-37B is used for military purposes, it will create a reason for
other nations to research and develop dangerous anti-satellite weapons.”

[Image: Missing image]
Figure 7-2: The US Air Force’s X-37B space plane

Third, it uses units’ task organizations to serve as preparations for establishing a space force. At the start of the
1980s, as US military spaceflight vigorously developed, the US Department of Defense began to organize military space
strengths. One after another, it organized space commands for the Army, Navy, and Air Force, as well as a Joint Space
Command for the three services; the total number of personnel in the space commands was about 40,000 men. In the area of
building up space forces, the United States adopted a form of incremental transition. It first reinforced the functions
of the Air Force Space Command and made it responsible for managing the military space activities of the three services;
afterwards, it established a space service arm within the Air Force, and it will await a future opportunity, when this
is mature, to make it independent of the Air Force and turn it into a space force. Currently, there has already been a
focus on strengthening the US Air Force’s space functions.

Fourth, it drafts doctrines for space operations and carries out space operations war games. Starting in 1998, the
United States issued three versions of its Space Operations ([Air Force Defense Document] 2-2) doctrine document, one
after the other (in 1998, 2001, and 2006), and its Counterspace Operations ([Air Force Defense Document] 2-2.1) (in
2004). Since 1997, the US Army, Navy, and Air Force have held operational exercises related to space operations. In
particular, beginning in 2001, the US Air Force has held six space operations war games called “Schriever,” one after
another, to study and prove theories and operational doctrines for future space operations and has improved and
innovated relevant technologies.

# 2. Russia

Russia was the primary inheritor of the Soviet Union’s legacy and has always viewed space security as an emblem of the
nation’s overall power and its military power. [Russia] treats seeking space capabilities as an important way to restore
its great-power status, and it is the second great space nation in today’s world. Faced with the United States’
aggressive developmental trends in the area of space control, Russia has adopted tit-for-tat response measures.

First, it has drafted a science of military strategy that has command of space as its core. On 4 February 2000, Russia’s
expanded National Security Council approved of and passed a Draft Russian Federation Military Doctrine, which considered
that military actions in future wars would be space-based at their core, that one of the developmental trends in future
military wars would be establishing and maintaining space superiority, and that seizing command of space would become
one of the main conditions for seizing command of the air and naval superiority.

Second, it has established its new military space units. On 1 June 2001, Russia formally organized its Space Forces;
these were the world’s first independent space units, and were an armed forces entity that integrated the use of space,
space operations, and missile defense into one.

Third, it has reorganized its military satellite system. Starting in 2006, it implemented a 10-Year Federal Space
Program, and its investments in the area of space over ten years will reach close to 400 billion rubles; one of the
focuses of its investment will be development of the military satellite system. Since 2000, Russia has launched a number
of military satellites each year, in order to supplement and improve its military satellite systems, like GLONASS, and
it has started to research and develop new types of reconnaissance, meteorological, and other satellite systems.

Fourth, it has vigorously developed its space operations weapons systems. Not only has Russia adopted various active and
passive defense measures for its satellite systems, but it has also vigorously reinforced its research and development
of space operations weapons systems, on the basis of the Soviet Union’s anti-satellite satellites that had combat
capabilities and on ground-based laser anti-satellite weapons that [the Soviet Union] had been testing. Russia is at an
advanced world level in the areas of powerful lasers and high-powered microwaves, and this has laid an excellent
foundation for Russia to develop corresponding space operations weapons.

3. The European Union and China’s peripheral countries (or regions)

In recent years, the various countries of the European Union have treated development of an independent space capability
as a focus of Europe’s space security strategy, and they have carried out a series of new space security policies.
First, they have clarified the important role of space for Europe’s development, they have reevaluated the cooperation
and divisions between Europe and the United States in the space sphere, they have emphasized the independence of
Europe’s ability to develop space, and they have vigorously pursued applying the principle that “matters in the European
region are decided by Europeans” to the space sphere. For example, Europe took the lead over the United States in 2003
in successfully launching a Mercury [sic] probe into orbit, showing the great significance of their competition with the
United States. Second, they have kept an eye on the overall European strategic situation, actively optimized their space
functional organization, made highly effective plans for European space activities, and followed an integrated road of
space development. Currently, nations are still the main bodies in Europe’s space activities, but alliances at the
supra-national level have gradually shown their strength, and the various member states of the European Union are now
joining hands to establish mechanisms for space construction and use where there is joint management, a sharing of
responsibilities, and a sharing of results. Third, they treat security and defense as the focus of Europe’s future
development of space, they are continually improving their various policies and regulations, which will provide guidance
and a basis for comprehensive and integrated European space strengths, and they have begun to expand their alliance on
space technology form a “civilian alliance” to a “military alliance.”

Along the PRC’s periphery, Japan in May 2009 [sic] passed the Basic Law on Space, which allowed the Japanese Space
Self-Defense Force to use space resources; at the same time, Japan intensified its policies related to “research,
development, and planning,” laying a legal foundation for future space actions. In addition, Japan also spent a great
deal of money on creating a reconnaissance satellite system, has actively built up its own military space strengths, and
intends to make use of space development to seek the status of a military power. India has paid close attention to
trends in space militarization, and in October 2003, it announced the establishment of an aerospace command, with its
priority on research and development of a military space system that would have a supporting role for command and
control; it is thus striving to improve its aerospace operations capabilities. South Korea and North Korea as well as
the region of Taiwan have also adopted such means as borrowing rockets to launch satellites, leasing channels, and
actively developing satellite confrontation measures as they compete to develop their own space military systems and
seek to have a say in the use of space and in the area of [space] confrontation.

# II. Developmental trends in space operations...210

As military space technology has rapidly developed and as the status of space strategy has continuously risen, and as
military competition in space has increasingly intensified, the United States, Russia, and other military powers are
giving more emphasis to the study of future forms of space operations and to the buildup and development of space
operations strengths.

1. The mission of space operations is developing from the “information support form” toward the direction of the
“command of space operations form,” and ultimately will achieve “deployment of strategic strengths against the earth’s
surface”

Looking back on the history of the development of air operations in the $2 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } } \ .$ century, it can
be found that air operations underwent three main stages: reconnaissance and communications support, seizing command of
the air, and deployment of strategic strengths against the land and sea battlefields. Although the platforms and methods
used by air operations and space operations differ, it is still possible to use the analogy of air operations’
developmental process in order to predict future developmental trends in space operations; these inevitably will undergo
three stages similar to those of air operations.

Currently, space operations are in the first stage, that is, the space information support stage. The main mission in
this stage of space operations is to provide information assistance and support to the ground forces, the navy, and the
air force, and operational actions primarily use the reconnaissance and surveillance, missile early warning,
communications relay, navigation and positioning, meteorological observations, geodesy, and nuclear explosion detection
carried out by space information systems. Given that space information systems play a huge role in information
integration and in increasing the effectiveness of strengths in warfare, at the same time that the various space powers
of the world are comprehensively improving and perfecting their space information systems, they are intensifying their development of anti-spacecraft weapons, in order to seek the ability in wartime to
interfere with, damage, or destroy their opponent’s orbiting spacecraft, thus paralyzing his space information systems.
The development and use of anti-spacecraft weapons inevitably will push space operations to develop toward the stage of
seizing command of space.

Seizing command of space will be the second stage in the future process of the development of space operations. The
mission in this stage of space operations will primarily be to seize and hold command of space, and on this basis to
provide information support to other services and service arms. Its operational actions will center on offensive and
defensive confrontations and on the development of space systems, and will mainly include space defense early warning
reconnaissance, anti-missile and antispacecraft, space blockades, and defense of space bases. In order to seize command
of space, the two great space powers – the United States and the Soviet Union (or Russia) began in the early 1960s to
research and develop anti-missile and anti-satellite weapons. In 1998, the United States’ Aerospace Command explicitly
pointed out in its Long Range Plan – Vision for 2020 that space is becoming an extremely important area of national
interest and an important basis for high-tech warfare, and the United States must energetically develop “integrated
offense-defense” space strategic strengths, while at the same time having the ability to use strengths and to control
the enemy’s use of space, thus firmly grasping “command of space.” After 2006, Russia had the ability to carry out space
reconnaissance and surveillance, missile early warning, missile interception, and anti-satellite operations, under
unified command. The functions of space strengths’ missions will incrementally rise from the current emphasis on
information support to an emphasis on attack missions, doing all they can to seize control over the sphere of space.
Building a “space force” that has strategic deterrence and space offense and defense capabilities will be an inevitable
choice in the $2 1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } } \cdot$ century as the major military powers struggle for the new strategic high
ground.

After space operations have passed through the two stages of the “information support” and “operations to command
space,” deploying strategic strengths against the earth’s surface will be the third stage of its future development. In
this stage, space forces will not only be able to provide information support for the ground forces, navy, and air
force, and to seize and hold command of space, but they will also be able to attack targets on the earth surface from
space or through space; to provide the ground forces, navy, and air force with firepower support; and even to directly
achieve strategic or campaign goals. In order to attack targets on the earth’s surface from space or through space, the
United States, the Soviet Union (or Russia), and other space powers have not only energetically developed ballistic
missiles, but they have also invested huge sums in researching and developing orbital bombardment systems, fractional
orbital bombardment systems, spacebased directed energy and kinetic energy weapons, and other space-to-surface attack
weapons, as well as carrier tools and launch platforms like manned spaceships, space stations, space shuttles, and space
planes. Of these, the Soviet Union (or Russia) focused on researching and developing orbital bombardment systems,
partial orbital bombardment systems, manned spaceships, and space stations; the United States, on the other hand,
concentrated on research and development of space-based lasers, microwave and particle beam weapons, space shuttles, and
space planes. Based on how the United States, Russia, and other countries have been researching and developing
space-tosurface attack weapons and carrier tools as well as launch platforms, it is projected that around 2020, attacks
from space or through space against targets on the ground (or underground), at sea (or underwater), and in the air that
are on the earth’s surface will become possible. At that time, space forces will possess the ability to launch strategic
strengths against the earth’s surface. At that point, space operations will have comprehensively moved toward maturity
and will present the following forms of space operations.

First is space information support and countermeasures. Space information assistance and support and countermeasure
actions will change the basic setup where there are no obstacles to the use of space information. Space information
support primarily includes space navigation and positioning; space communications; space weather and geodetic support;
space reconnaissance, surveillance, and identification; and space ballistic missile early warning. Countermeasures
against the use of space information support include preventing satellites from entry, jamming and suppression, and soft
and hard kills.

Second is missile battles. This primarily refers to ballistic missile battles. Ballistic missile battles are also
divided into [the following]: for offensive missiles with a range of less than 3,500 kilometers, missile defense systems
generally adopt offensive and defensive operations that intercept tactical missiles within the atmosphere at high and
low altitudes; for offensive missiles with a range greater than 3,500 kilometers and speeds greater than five kilometers
per second, missile defense systems generally adopt offensive and defensive operations that intercept strategic missiles
during the powered stage and the mid-flight stage outside the atmosphere. With the development of near-space weapons,
missile offensive and defensive operations will also include near-space offensive and defensive operations that attack
cruise (or gliding) missiles flying at altitudes greater than twenty kilometers.

Third is anti-satellite operations. Anti-satellite weapons differ according to their carrier platforms; they can be
divided into four types: land-based, sea-based, air-based, and space-based. Their means of killing primarily consist of
three types: nuclear energy kills, kinetic energy kills, and directed energy kills. Currently, land-based kinetic energy
antisatellite weapons are relatively mature, while space-based kinetic energy anti-satellite weapons are in the
technical demonstration stage.

Fourth is space-to-surface assaults. Space-to-surface assault actions refer to actions that carry out attacks from outer
space against targets on land, sea, and air battlefields on the earth’s surface, using space-based weapons. Attack
operations that are carried out from outer space at [altitudes of] more than 120 kilometers above the earth’s surface
are not restricted by national boundaries, territorial waters, or territorial air, and so have a fairly great degree of
freedom. The targets that they hit can be fixed strategic targets, but they can also be mobile targets on land, sea, and
air battlefields, and they not only can be targets within a theater of war, but also targets anywhere on the globe.

Fifth is space-to-space battles. Space-to-space battle actions refer to the use of spacebased weapons to carry out
attacks in outer space against enemy space-based weapons, space stations, and space satellites, or defensive operational
actions against attacks by space-based weapons; they are the highest form of space offensive and defensive
confrontations.

2. Space operations equipment are developing from a “single type” in the direction of an “auxiliary systems type”

Up until now, because the primary mission of space strengths has been information support, the types and models of space
weapons and equipment have been relatively unitary. The increasing maturity of military space technology and the
escalation and expansion of space military actions will turn research and development of space weapons and equipment
that have both offense and defense and that have auxiliary systems into a main focus of future space military
competition. The United States will continue to develop main space battle equipment that will be marked by space
operations platforms and attack weapons, and it will achieve major breakthroughs in the area of research and development
of missile defense weapons, anti-satellite weapons, orbital bombardment weapons, kinetic energy interception weapons,
space-based anti-missile weapons, and directed energy weapons. The US Department of Defense in 2010 launched research
and development of the “next generation of long-range attack” systems, and intensified its tests of equipment like the
X-37B space plane, the HTV-2 Falcon hypersonic flight vehicle, the X-51 supersonic cruise missile, and “advanced
hypersonic weapons.” The X37B is the world’s first space plane, researched and developed by the United States, and it
has successfully been launched into the air a number of times since 2010. It not only can carry out hypersonic flights
in the atmosphere, with a maximum speed that can reach twenty-five times the speed of sound, six to twelve times the
speed of modern combat aircraft, but it also can enter outer space orbit and remain in operation [there] for 270 days. In addition, the cost of its launches is low, the rate at which it can be repeatedly used is high, and it has a
number of military uses, so it will become one of the crucial weapons for the United States’ future control of space and
its struggle for command of space. The X-51 cruise missile’s speed is five times the speed of sound, while the speed of
the Falcon HTV-2 flight vehicle, which is launched using a carrier rocket, is twenty times the speed of sound, and it
glides 3,700 kilometers in thirty minutes at supersonic speeds after separation from its rocket, meaning that it can
reach anywhere on the globe in one to two hours. Russia is paying a great deal of attention to the research and
development of advanced space weapons, and it will continually improve the combat capabilities of its anti-satellite
satellites, its ground-based powerful laser weapons, and its high-powered microwave weapons. It is predicted that
between 2020 and 2030, the weapons and equipment of space strengths will transition from the current emphasis on passive
defense and unitary support in the direction of offense-defense integration, with an emphasis on offense and with
auxiliary systems.

3. The structure of space operations strengths will develop from the “single structure model” in the direction of a
“composite structure model”

As space strengths further develop, the organizational structure of US and Russian space strengths will become more
composite and the functions of their systems will become more perfect. The buildup of future space strengths will
develop in the direction of being “composite” and generally can be divided into four types of structures. [The first is]
space tracking units, which are primarily responsible for monitoring intercontinental missiles launched from the air,
from underwater, and from the ground; for tracking enemy military spacecraft in outer space; for finding situations and
[issuing] early warnings; and for providing information support. [The second is] space offensive operations units, which
primarily rely on space operations platforms to carry out offensive operations actions that attack targets in space, in
the air, at sea, and on the ground. [The third is] space defensive operations units, which are primarily responsible for
defensive operations actions that intercept enemy intercontinental ballistic missiles and military spacecraft. [The
fourth is] space logistics support units, which are primarily responsible for space technological assistance and
support, logistics support, and security support. The United States’ space operations strengths consist of units for
monitoring combat and units for military space combat. Their current organizational structure consists of four space
wings and one space squadron. Of these, the $2 1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }$ Space Wing is primarily responsible for
strategic early warning, the $3 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ and $4 5 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ Wings are mainly responsible
for space launches, and the $5 0 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ Space Wing is responsible for carrying out space tracking and
for professional management. The space squadron is primarily responsible for space defense surveillance. In 2000, the
United States established a space operations institute, especially to train space operations personnel for the US
military. In October of that same year, the United States also established the $5 2 7 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ Space Aggressor
Squadron; this was the United States’ first unit used for space operations. In addition, according to plans, the United
States will establish and deploy seventeen aerospace expeditionary forces. Based on the differences in their operational
tasks, the seventeen units will be divided into three types: a basic type, an emergency response type, and a mobile
type, which will be responsible for differing tasks. Currently, the United States has ten basic space expeditionary
units, two emergency response aerospace expeditionary forces, and five mobile aerospace expeditionary forces. On 25
January 2001, Russia separated its military space units and missile defense units from out of its Strategic Rocket
Forces, and within a year it had reorganized a new service, on the basis of them: the Russian Space Forces, directly
subordinate to the command of the General Staff. The newly organized Space Forces were primarily responsible for
military space launches, space operations, and missile defense missions, and they were mainly equipped with such space
attack weapons as anti-satellite satellites and space-based anti-satellite missiles.

4. Miniature satellites will become an important trend in the development of future military satellites

There is as yet no unified definition for the concept of miniature satellites, but a relatively uniform view is that
they weigh less than 450 kilograms; their length, width, and height all do not exceed fifty centimeters, and their
research and development costs are between several million US dollars and $\$ 25$ million. Because their many
“characteristics” are quite suitable for roles in the military sphere, their prospects are therefore unlimited, and they
will become an important trend in the development of future military satellites.

Looking at this from a military angle, the miniaturization of satellites will bring about benefits in the following
several areas. First is that small satellite systems have strong survival capabilities. It is very easy for large
satellites to become the targets of attacks by anti-satellite weapons, and once they have been damaged they are then
“completely annihilated.” If multiple small satellites are used in a form that works to create a network where [the
satellites] back each other up, then even if one or two are “sacrificed,” this will not have a major impact on the
entire system. Second is that launches of small satellites are flexible. They can be launched in a mobile manner using
small-scale carrier rockets along railways and highways, and they can also be launched from the air, using aircraft; it
will be very difficult for the enemy to be certain about the ins and outs of their launches. According to reports, the
US military is currently bidding to research and develop several mobile carrier tools especially for launching
small-scale satellites, in order to “not put all of the United States’ eggs in one basket,” and so that it could use any
rocket among them to launch a small-scale special emergency-response military satellite in a timely manner at any time
to carry out a single mission. Third is that it is easy to deploy and use small satellites to create a cluster-style network, in order to enhance the scope and timing of their
outer space reconnaissance as well as the stability of their system. Fourth is that small satellites have a fairly high
cost-benefit ratio. The characteristics of modern small satellites, where their research and development cycle is short
and their costs are low, are very suited to the modern military “appetite,” because modern warfare is developing in the
direction more and more of a quick fight and a quick resolution; as long as tactical satellites can meet wartime needs,
then even if they are discarded after the war, this will not create excessive losses. Looking at the costs of waging a
high-intensity war, using small satellites to replace large satellites that have a fairly long lifespan but whose costs
are expensive is still quite worthwhile. Fifth is that they are conducive to mass production and storage. Because of
miniature satellites’ characteristics where their technology and parts are standardized and universal, this not only
makes it possible for them to use an assembly line for mass production, just as with commercial products, but it is also
possible in peacetime to store some of them in advance, and once war breaks out, it is possible to launch them at any
time for use.

Currently, the United States, Russia, the various European countries, and Japan are all energetically developing
miniature satellites. The US Army, Navy, and Air Force have drafted plans for the research and development of miniature
satellites and have begun to carry these out. For example, the “pipe” {yandou} ultrahigh frequency miniature satellite
weighs less than twenty-two kilograms, and seven “pipe” satellites located in the same plane can form a communications
satellite net. A concept by Englishmen is more advanced; a plan they have proposed is to launch several hundred “fiber
cable-type” satellites the size of a softball; each satellite would weigh less than one kilogram, and they would form a
chain of satellites for relaying information in an orbit 400 kilometers high, to be used for communication with remote
units. The entire communications network would consist of sixty to 100 satellites, and according to estimates, each
satellite would cost $\$ 17,000.$ As miniature [technology] and nanotechnology further develop, scientists’ concepts are
becoming even more daring; they have conceived of using several hundred satellites [each] weighing less than 100 grams
to carry out surveillance and information forwarding missions.

The emergence of miniature satellites will bring about profound changes in the design, manufacture, and orbital control
of future spacecraft; contention in outer space among the various countries will be even more intense, and outer space
in the future will also be even less tranquil. This inevitably will push space technology to advance forward faster,
better, and more economically, while at the same time it will also inevitably greatly promote the development of
military spaceflight.

# Questions for Deliberation…216

1. The process of development of space operations has largely gone through what stages?

2. Examining the goals, means, and scales of strengths for space operations, summarize the characteristics of space
operations in each stage.

3. At the current stage, what measures have the two great space military powers, the United States and Russia, each
taken to deal with competition in outer space?

4. Summarize the developmental trends for future space operations.

Main References…217
[1] Chang Xianqi {常显奇}, et al. Science of Military Astronautics {junshi hangtian xue}. Beijing: National Defense
Industry Press, 2005.
[2] Wang Wanchun {王万春}. Air and Space Operations, Theory and Practice {hangtian zuozhan lilun yu shijian}. Beijing: Blue
Sky Press, 2010.
[3] Jia Junming {贾俊明}. Study of Space Operations {taikong zuozhan yanjiu}. Beijing: NDU Press, 2002.
[4] GED Electronic Information Foundation Department. Modern Weapons and Equipment Knowledge Series {xiandai wuqi
zhuangbei zhishi zongshu}. Beijing: Atomic Energy Press, 2003.
[5] Chinese Military Encyclopedia: Military Space Technology {zhongguo junshi baike quanshu – junshi hangtian jishu}.
Beijing: China Encyclopedia Press, 2008.
[6] Wang Yonggang {王永刚} and Liu Yuwen {刘玉文}. Introduction to Military Satellites and Applications {junshi weixing ji
yingyong gailun}. Beijing: National Defense Industry Press, 2003.
[7] Ding Bangyu {丁邦宇}. Science of Operational Command {zuozhan zhihui xue}. Beijing: Military Science Press, 2004.
[8] Xiong Wuyi {熊武一}. Dictionary of Ancient Military Art Appreciation {gudai bingfa jianshang cidian}. Beijing: Military
Translations Press, 1995.
[9] Le Jingchun {勒敬纯}, et al. Struggle for Supremacy in Space {zhengba taikong}. Beijing: National Defense Industry
Press, 2008.
[10] Xu Lisheng {徐立生} and Huang Wuyuan {黄武元}. Modern Military Astronautics {xiandai junshi hangtian}. Beijing: Starmap
Press, 2008.
[11] Xiao Han {肖寒} and Zhu Chaowei {朱焯伟}. Exploration of Space {taikong tansuo}. Beijing: People’s Armed Police Press,
2009.
[12] Pan Houren {潘厚任} and Wang Jingtao {王景涛}. Introduction to Science of Astronautics {taikong xue gailun}. Ha’erbin:
Ha’erbin Institute of Technology Press, 2003.
[13] Shu Xing {蜀星}. Pressing Forward in Space {tingjin taikong}. Beijing: PLA Press, 2005.
[14] Yuan Gannan {袁赣南} and Zhou Weidong {周卫东}, et al. Navigational Guidance and Positioning Systems Engineering {daohang
dingwei xitong gongcheng}. Ha’erbin: Ha’erbing: Ha’erbin Institute of Technology Press, 2008.
[15] Li Yue {李跃}. Navigational Guidance and Positioning – The Beidou Star of Informationized War {daohang yu dingwei –
xinxihua zhanzheng de beidou xing}. Beijing: National Defense Industry Press, 2008.
[16] Ren Xuan {任萱} and Hu Xiaoping {胡小平}. Military Space Technology {junshi hangtian jishu}. Beijing: Military
Translations Press, 1998. [End of page 217]
[17] Li Ruichen {李瑞晨}. Operational Applications of Spacecrafts {hangtianqi de zuozhan yingyong}. Beijing: China Defense
Science and Technology Information Center, 1996.
[18] Hu Siyuan {胡思远} and Chen Hu {陈虎}. US Space Warfare {meijun hangtianzhan}. Beijing: NDU Press, 1995.
[19] Lin Huabao {林华宝}. Current State and Trends of Foreign Satellite Technologies and Applications {waiguo weixing jishu
ji yingyong xianzhuang yu qushi}. Beijing: China Astronautics Press, 2001.
[20] Cao Fucheng {曹福成}. Space Warfare in the $2 { \cal I } ^ { s t }$ Century {21 shiji taikongzhan}. Xi’an: Future
Press, 1999.
[21] Su Enze {苏恩泽}. Space Force Across the Heavens {tianjun hengkong}. Beijing: Military Science Press, 2001.
[22] Hong Bing {洪兵} and Liang Xiaoqiu {粱晓秋}. America Will Fight Space Warfare {meiguo yao da taikongzhan}. Beijing: PLA
Press, 2001.
[23] Xu Haiyu {徐海玉}. Study on US Military Space Confrontation Theory and Technology {meijun kongtian duikang lilun yu
jishu yanjiu}. Ha’erbin: Ha’erbin Institute of Technology Press, 2002.

# [End of page 218]

# Postscript…219

The book, Lectures on Science of Space Operations, is one of the topics of the 2010 Academy of Military Science [AMS]
Postgraduate Teaching Material Revised Plan. The revision of this lecture is the first of its kind for the discipline
building and comprehensive study aspect of PLA space operations theory. Under the correct leadership and strong support
of the senior officers and organs of the AMS, the Lectures on Science of Space Operations began its revision at the
beginning of 2011, and it was completed in the latter half of 2012, coalescing the wisdom and painstaking care of the
leadership, experts and topic team members of the Operational Theory and Regulations Study Department. During the
revision period, AMS Deputy Director Xu Lili {徐莉莉} and AMS Scientific Research Guidance Dept. Chief He Lei {何雷} followed
with interest the lectures’ revision work and on multiple occasions made some instructive requirements; AMS Operational
Theory and Regulations Study Department. Chief Zhang Shiping {张世平} and Deputy Chief Jiang Yamin {蒋亚民} conducted specific
guidance on multiple occasions for the lectures revision work as well as approving the details of the lectures’
framework. On the basis of the characteristics of the foundational quality of the lectures and the difficulty degree of
revision, the Lectures Revision Topic Team broadly collected the theoretical and practice achievements of foreign
military and PLA space operations, conscientiously sifted, thoroughly deliberated, meticulously proved, and boldly made
breakthroughs; they strived to be complete and accurate and to innovatively reflect the features of space operations in
terms of structure and content.

The topic team formed for lectures revision was headed by the team chief (Chief Editor) Jiang Lianju {姜连举} and Deputy
Team Chief Wang Liwen {王立文} (Assistant Chief Editor) as they conducted the specific division of effort: Jiang Lianju
designed the framework of the entire book and refined the main writing content of each lecture; the first lecture was
written by Zhao Baoxian {赵宝献} and Li Xianrui {李先瑞}; the second lecture is by Yang Yilin {杨艺霖}; the third lecture is by
Ruan Guangfeng {阮光峰}; the fourth lecture is by Huang Yong {黄勇} and Su Wei {苏伟}; the fifth lecture is by Wang Liwen, the
sixth lecture is by Ni Tianyou {倪天友}; and the seventh lecture is by Chen Aiyuan {陈爱元}. During the course of research and
writing, we cited and absorbed some study achievements of colleagues and experts; we obtained the strong support and
concerned guidance of the Operational Theory and Regulations Studies Department’s $4 ^ { \mathrm { t h } } .$ Research
Office leadership as well as the powerful support of colleagues across the PLA. For this we express our utmost
appreciation!

Space operations are a completely new form appearing along with the accelerated evolution of informationized war. The
study of space operations is still in an exploratory period, and especially because the PLA space operations practices
and experience are insufficient, top quality work in theory is in short supply, adding to the degree of difficulty for
study. At the same time, also constrained by our [end of page 219] field of view and levels, some oversights and

inappropriate places were difficult to avoid in the lectures, so we earnestly request our broad readership to make
corrections.

Editor October 2012 [End of page 220]