### Publisher: China Workers' Network

Publish Date: 30 Jan 2024 2347Z

 Title: A powerful ideological weapon for building a financial powerhouse

 At the beginning of the new year, General Secretary Xi Jinping's important speech at the opening ceremony of the seminar on promoting high-quality development of finance for major leading cadres at the provincial ministerial level, with the theme of promoting high-quality development of finance, taught the first lesson for senior cadres of the whole party. This is a glorious document of Marxist financial theory with strong political, ideological, pertinent and guidance, which needs to be read and studied over and over again for in-depth understanding and comprehension.

At the beginning of the new year, General Secretary Xi Jinping's important speech at the opening ceremony of the seminar on promoting high-quality development of finance for major leading cadres at the provincial and ministerial levels taught the first lesson for senior cadres of the whole party on the theme of promoting high quality development of finance. This is a glorious document of Marxist financial theory with strong political, ideological, pertinence and guidance, which needs to be read and studied over and over again for in-depth understanding and comprehension.

Deepening the understanding of the important position and role of financial work in the overall situation of the Party and the State.

General Secretary Xi Jinping, after the Central Financial Work Conference in 2023, once again expounded on financial issues in just three months, fully reflecting the great importance he attaches to financial work, which implies profound political wisdom and far-reaching strategic considerations in the management of the country. The importance of finance as the"state of the nation" can be recognized from four aspects.

From the perspective of the central task of the Party in the new era and new journey, finance is related to the overall situation of Chinese-style modernization. The central task of the new journey in the new era is to comprehensively promote the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation by means of Chinese-style modernization, which is a major decision made at the 20th Party Congress. After the 20th CPC National Congress, the central government held a seminar for new members, alternate members of the Central Committee and provincial-level leading cadres to study and implement Xi Jinping's thought of socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era and the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, and General Secretary Xi Jinping focused on the theme of"Chinese-style modernization" in his important speech at the opening ceremony. At the opening ceremony of this seminar, General Secretary Xi Jinping's speech focused on the"financial aspects of Chinese-style modernization". Why do we need to talk about financial issues? Because finance is the core of the modern economy, is the bloodline of the national economy, the construction of a strong financial country is the construction of a strong socialist modernization of the strategic tasks and inevitable requirements. Do not do a good job of financial work,there is no high-quality development of finance, there is no high quality development of the entire economy and society, it is impossible to successfully achieve Chinese-style modernization. Only by unswervingly taking the road of financial development with Chinese characteristics and promoting the high-quality development of China's finance can we provide strong financial support for the realization of the Party's central task in the new era and new journey.

From the perspective of the international situation of a century of great changes, finance is the place where great powers must fight for the game. Finance is an important core competitiveness of the country, financial reform and development is an important element of national reform and development, and financial security is an important part of national security. Historically, the rise of great powers are inseparable from the key support of a strong financial system. In today's world, the intensity and impact of the financial war even exceeds that of the armed conflict and scientific and technological disputes.Moreover, behind armed conflicts and scientific and technological disputes, the means of financial sanctions play an important role. China has now become a major financial power, but it is not yet a financial power. Only by accelerating the construction of a financial powerhouse and continuously improving our competitiveness and the right to speak in international finance can we grasp the initiative in the game of great powers.

Judging from the domestic economic situation, there is still a long way to go in preventing and resolving financial risks.

Finance is both very important and very prone to risk.At present and in the coming period, China's financial sector is in a period of high risk vulnerability. In his important speeches at the 2017 National Financial Work Conference, the 2023 Central Financial Work Conference and the opening ceremony of this seminar,General Secretary Xi Jinping highlighted the issue of preventing and resolving financial risks. For more than 40 years of reform and opening up, China has not had a financial crisis, which is unique among the world's major countries. However, this does not mean that everything is calm, in the 1990s, we had a financial"three chaos" phenomenon, several large banks in fact fell into technical difficulties. At present, the risk of small and medium sized financial institutions, local debt risk, financial risk in the real estate sector, the risk of illegal financial activities is particularly prominent, the risk continues to deteriorate, the stock of risk has not yet bottomed out, the incremental risk is still gathering, and the financial risk of hidden, sudden, infectious, destructive is particularly strong, mishandling of the very easy to lead to social risk, political risk, and must not be taken lightly. Only by enhancing the sense of concern, adhering to the bottom-line and limit thinking, and resolving to fundamentally resolve the contradictions and problems in the financial sector, and firmly guarding the bottom line of no systemic financial risks, can national security and social stability be ensured.

From the point of view of the condition of the cadres, it is extremely urgent to improve financial work skills and strengthen financial supervision and management. The financial sector, concentrated power, capital-intensive, resource-rich, not only is the"state of the art", but also corruption is prone to high frequency of the worst areas. Do a good job in the financial sector, the requirements of leading cadres at all levels, especially the financial cadres must be politically competent, competent, hard style. The current financial sector of all kinds of problems in the chaos is caused by many human factors. Many leading cadres do not know much about financial work, do not know deeply, there is a more serious"panic". In particular, some people have a distorted view of performance, lack of financial knowledge, contrary to the laws of the financial market,"patting the head to make decisions, patting the chest to do, patting the buttocks to go", wantonly and indiscriminately, causing irreparable major losses.What's more, some people have the audacity to rely on the financial eat financial, internal and external collusion, abuse of power and wealth, greed. Visible, improve the leading cadres of financial work skills, increase the financial field of anti-corruption efforts, is the current financial cadres to build a pressing task.

### Deepening the understanding of our Party's historical process of exploring the road of financial development with Chinese characteristics

Historically, the Party has attached great importance to financial work, constantly deepened its understanding of financial work, and tirelessly explored the road of financial development in line with China's actual situation.

The period of the New Democratic Revolution. Mao Zedong attached great importance to financial work, leading the Party to issue currency and set up a national bank as early as the Soviet period. During the Yan'an period, Mao Zedong explicitly included"adjustment of financial relations" in the"Outline of Governance of the Shanxi-Gansu-Ningxia Border Region", and emphasized:"Recognize that trade, finance, and treasury are important links in the organization of the entire economic life; if they are separated from them or if a wrong approach is adopted towards them, the entire economic life will be stagnant or impeded. obstructed." The Party has successively established an effective monetary and financial system in the anti Japanese bases and the liberated areas, which has vigorously supported the construction of the bases and the armed struggle. However, during this period the Party operated mainly in rural areas and was generally unfamiliar with urban financial work.

The period of socialist revolution and construction.The Party won the"Battle of the Silver Dollar" and the"Battle of Rice and Cotton" at the very beginning of the founding of New China, rapidly stabilizing the economic order of New China. Since then, we have successfully carried out monetary reforms and established a banking system adapted to the economic system at that time, and China's financial services have developed greatly. However, under the highly centralized planned economic system, the main functions of the National Bank were cashier and accountant, and it was not yet a real bank; it was difficult for finance to play a real role in resource allocation and to make full use of limited resources.

A new period of reform, opening up and socialist modernization. The Party has gained a deeper understanding of the important role of finance. Deng Xiaoping pointed out that"if finance is done well, the whole system will be alive", and demanded that"the steps of financial reform should be taken in a bigger way". We have initially established a central banking system and a financial system with banks, securities and insurance as the mainstay, which has played an important role in the development of the socialist market economy. With the deepening of reform and opening up, China's financial services have ushered in major opportunities, but at the same time have also encountered new challenges. Under the new circumstances, the Party attaches great importance to promoting financial reform and development and safeguarding financial security, and has conducted in-depth studies on a series of major financial issues, which have not only successfully withstood the two major shocks of the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and the world financial crisis of 2008, but also facilitated the sustained, rapid and healthy development of the national economy.

A new era of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Since the 18th CPC National Congress, the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has combined Marxist financial theories with the concrete realities of contemporary China and with the excellent traditional Chinese culture, continued to push forward practical, theoretical and institutional innovations in China's financial undertakings, and endeavored to open up the road of financial development with Chinese characteristics. Under the centralized and unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee, we have resolutely fought the battle of preventing and resolving financial risks, and the financial system has strongly supported the overall situation of economic and social development, provided a source of living water for promoting the high-quality development of China's economy, and helped build a moderately prosperous society in all aspects as scheduled, effectively dealt with the impact of the new epidemic and other unexpected factors, and appropriately responded to the United States and the West, which have been engaged in various adverse currents, such as the"delinking and breaking of the chain". It has made an important contribution to building a moderately prosperous society on schedule, effectively coping with the impact of the new epidemic and other unexpected factors, and appropriately responding to the"decoupling and breaking the chain" of the United States and Western countries.

History and practice have amply proved that the road of financial development with Chinese characteristics is a path of pioneering and innovation that no one has ever seen before, as well as a path of self-confidence and self-reliance, a path of steady progress and a path of long term peace and security. It does not fall from the sky, nor is it copied from books, but it is created by our Party leading the people in the practice of long and arduous exploration. This road is hard-won, and this road, which is feasible and stable, conforms to China's national conditions, adapts to China's realities and follows the trend of the times, and must be pursued unswervingly.

Deepening the understanding of General Secretary Xi Jinping's important exposition on financial work

Since the 18th CPC National Congress, General Secretary Xi Jinping has made a series of important expositions on financial work, systematically elaborating the basic content of the road of financial development with Chinese characteristics. Studying General Secretary Xi Jinping's important speech at the opening ceremony of this seminar has further deepened our understanding of the core essence, spiritual essence and main content of General Secretary Xi Jinping's important expositions on financial work.

Adhere to the centralized and unified leadership of the Party Central Committee in financial work.

Strengthening the centralized and unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee over financial work is the fundamental guarantee for good financial work.This is to take the road of good financial development with Chinese characteristics of the first issue, but also the most critical, the most central issue. To do a good job in financial work, we must further comprehend the decisive significance of the"two establishments" and resolutely achieve the"two safeguards".

Adhere to the people-centered value orientation. The nature and purpose of our Party and the nature and function of state power determine that our financial services are for the people and for the benefit of the people, which is very different from the financial services of the United States and other Western countries, which are for the service of capital and for the service of a few rich people. To do a good job in finance, we must stand firm on the people's position, enhance the diversity, universality and accessibility of services, and better protect the rights and interests of financial consumers.

Insisting on financial services for the real economy as the fundamental purpose. Serving the real economy is the vocation of finance, the purpose of finance, and the fundamental measures to prevent financial risks.Do a good job in finance, we must return to the origin, adhere to the real economy as the starting point and landing point, in support of the real economy to do real stronger and better to realize the high quality development of the financial itself.

Adhere to risk prevention and control as the eternal theme of financial work. Maintaining financial security is a strategic and fundamental matter related to the overall situation of China's economic and social development; preventing and resolving financial risks is a fundamental task of financial work. To do a good job in financial work, we must adhere to the prevention and control of risks as the eternal theme of financial work, and firmly guard the bottom line of no systemic financial risks.

Adhere to promoting financial innovation and development on the track of marketization and rule of law. Financial security depends on the system, vitality in the market, order by the rule of law. To do a good job in finance, we must have a sound regulatory system, establish a sound system of financial laws and market rules, and ensure the healthy operation of the financial market by prohibiting and punishing violations of the law.

Insist on deepening the structural reform of the financial supply side. Implement the new development concept completely, accurately and comprehensively, and accelerate the construction of a modern financial system with Chinese characteristics by deepening the structural reform of the financial supply side. To do a good job in finance, we must focus on building a modern financial control system, market system, institutional system, regulatory system, product and service system, and infrastructure system, so as to provide higher-quality and more efficient financial services for the development of the real economy.

### (c) Insisting on the integration of financial liberalization and security. Efforts should be made to promote high-level financial liberalization and ensure national financial and economic security. To do a good job of financial work, we must grasp the pace and intensity of opening up, effectively enhance the capacity of financial supervision, and ensure a higher level of financial liberalization with a higher level of risk prevention and control.

Adhere to the general tone of seeking progress while maintaining stability. Adhere to the principle of seeking progress while maintaining stability, promoting stability through progress, and establishing before breaking. Do a good job of financial work, must be stable, macro-control, financial development, financial reform, financial supervision, risk disposal, etc. should be stable, financial policy can not be too anxious to collect and release, to prevent big ups and downs. At the same time, we must be proactive, the stand up to grasp the stand up, in a stable position, stabilize the basic situation in the continuous problem solving, and continue to move forward.

The road of financial development with Chinese characteristics must be aimed at accelerating the construction of a financial power, promoting high-quality financial development, fostering and promoting a financial culture with Chinese characteristics, building a financial power, and anchoring three goals: in the next five years, basically building a general framework of a modern financial system with Chinese characteristics; by 2035, basically building a modern financial system with Chinese characteristics; and by the middle of this century, building a modern financial power.

General Secretary Xi Jinping's important exposition on financial work has both worldview and methodology; it deploys the task of"crossing the river" and guides the solution of the problem of"bridge or boat", scientifically answering a series of major theoretical and practical questions about how to look at and how to do financial work in the new era and new journey. It has scientifically answered a series of major theoretical and practical questions on how to look at and do financial work in the new era and new journey. This is a profound summary of the Party's historical and practical experience in leading financial work, an enrichment and development of Marxist financial theory, and the financial chapter of Xi Jinping's economic thought, which elevates the Party's understanding of the essential laws of finance and the path of development to an unprecedented new height, and provides a fundamental guideline and guide to action for taking the road of financial development with Chinese characteristics and accelerating the construction of a financial powerhouse, which must be fully and accurately understood and fully understood. We must study and grasp it comprehensively and implement it without fail.

Deepening the understanding of the responsibility of serving the overall situation of the financial work of the whole party on the basis of one's own position

 Doing a good job in financial work is not only the responsibility of the financial sector and the financial system, but also the common responsibility of the whole Party and society. As a specialized institution for the study of Party history and theory, the Central Academy of Party History and Literature will bear in mind its duties and missions, focus on its main responsibilities and tasks, identify the combination point and focus point for serving the overall situation of the financial work of the whole Party, and focus on three aspects of work.

Grasp the editing and publication of the important writings of General Secretary Xi Jinping. To do a good job of financial work, the first thing we need to do is to study Xi Jinping's economic thought, especially the important expositions of General Secretary Xi Jinping on financial work, which requires systematic and authoritative teaching materials. Editing and publishing the important writings of General Secretary Xi Jinping is the primary responsibility of the Central Academy of Party History and Literature. We will edit and publish General Secretary Xi Jinping's writings on the important discussions on financial work, so as to provide authoritative teaching materials for the whole Party and society.

(c) Grasp the research and interpretation of the important exposition on financial work by General Secretary Xi Jinping and publicize and publicize it. Xi Jinping's Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era is an ever expanding and open-ended system of thought, and General Secretary Xi Jinping's important expositions on financial work will be enriched and developed with the deepening of practice. We will follow up the Party's theoretical and practical innovations in a timely manner, study and explain the General Secretary Xi Jinping's important expositions on financial work, publicize and publicize them well, make efforts to promote the systematication and rationalization of the Party's innovative theories, and push them to be more deeply rooted in the people's hearts and to better reach out to the world, so as to play the role of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China as a reliable document library, ideological database and think-tank.

We are working on the compilation and study of the major achievements and historical experience of the Party in leading financial work. We are in the process of editing a collection of important Party documents, such as Selected Important Documents Since the Twentieth Congress(first volume), and we are also working on basic works of Party history, such as volumes III and IV of the History of the Communist Party of China and the Chronicle of the Communist Party of China(during the New Democratic Revolution). We will reflect the results of these works, providing authoritative readings for learning from the past and studying the historical process and experience of our Party's leadership in financial work, especially the major achievements of financial reform and development in the new era.

(Author: Qu Qingshan, Director of the Central Institute of Party History and Literature)

https://www.workercn.cn/c/2024-01-31/8134637.shtml