# An Essay on the National Defense Policy of New China

Chen Zhou

Abstract: Since the founding of New China, the Party and the State have formulated and implemented defensive national
defense policies with diferent connotations and distinctive features in accordance with the security situation and
national military conditions at diferent times. Especially in the new era, it has been greatly improved and developed,
and its main connotations include: resolutely defending national sovereignty, security and development interests,
insisting on never claiming hegemony, never expanding and never seeking a sphere of infuence, implementing the military
strategic guidelines of the new era, insisting on taking the road of strengthening the military with Chinese
characteristics, and serving the building of a community of shared destiny for mankind, and presenting the fve aspects
of being subordinate to the general goal of serving the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and insisting on the
principle of the "national defense policy", which has been widely recognized by the international community. It also
presents fve aspects, namely, obeying and serving the goal of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, insisting on
the unity of the defensive nature of national defense policy and the frmness of choosing to defend national interests,
realizing the Party's goal of a strong military in the new era, and reform and innovation becoming the inevitable way to
strengthen the military and build up the military, and reinforcing the importance of military-civilian fusion. Keywords:
New China, National Defense Policy, Active Defense, Classifcation Number: E25, Literature Identifer: A, Article Number:
1002-4484 (2020) 01-0016-06

Author: Chen Zhou, former researcher, Major General, Institute of War Studies, Academy of Military Science

Since the founding of New China, the Party and the State, in the light of the profound changes in the international
strategic and domestic situation, and in the light of China's specifc national and military conditions, have formulated
and implemented a national defence policy with a distinctive defensive character, with diferent connotations and
characteristics, which has played a crucial role in providing scientifc guidance for national defence construction,
leading national defence activities in a unifed manner, and rationally utilizing national defence forces.

National Defense Policy. On September 30, 1949, the Declaration of the First Plenary Session of the Political
Consultative Conference, drafted by Mao Zedong, stated that the Chinese Government would safeguard the interests of the
people, strengthen the people's army, navy and air force, consolidate national defense, protect territorial and
sovereignty integrity, and oppose the aggression of any imperialist country; and unite with all peace-loving and
freedom-loving countries, nationalities and peoples to oppose the imperialists' conspiracy of prearranging wars and
strive for a lasting peace in the world. The Conference has adopted a set of resolutions that are of vital importance to
the country. The "Common Programme" adopted at the Conference, which serves as a provisional constitution for the
country, stipulates that the task of China's national defense is "to defend China's independence and the integrity of
its territorial sovereignty, the fruits of the revolution and all the lawful rights and interests of the Chinese
people", and that China "supports lasting international peace and friendly cooperation among peoples of all countries".
China "upholds lasting international peace and friendship and cooperation among peoples of all countries, and opposes
the aggressive and warlike policies of imperialism".

National defense policy and its characteristics in preparation for sudden and massive foreign invasion

At the time of its founding, New China proclaimed to the world a defensive policy centered on consolidating national
defense, opposing aggression and striving for peace.

At that time, national security was faced with internal and external problems, and there was a real threat of
large-scale foreign invasion. Domestic reactionary forces and international anti-Chinese forces attempted to join hands
to strangle the nascent Chinese regime in its infancy. China adopted a "one- $\neq \ast$ sided" foreign policy toward
the socialist camp led by the Soviet Union, carried out the war against the U.S.A. and North Korea, provided foreign
military assistance to Vietnam and France, and carried out the liberation of the Yijiangshan Island, the shelling of
Kinmen, and the quelling of the rebellion in Tibet. Mao Zedong clearly put forward the strategic task of building a
strong army, air force and navy to realize a modern national defense, and made the decision to develop its own atomic
bomb, hydrogen bomb and artifcial satellite. In March 1956, the Central Military Commission formally established the
strategic policy of active defense for the defense of the motherland, based on the possibility of a sudden strategic
attack by U.S.-led forces on the eastern seaboard of China, from Hainan Island in the south to the Tumen River in the
north. In January 1960, the Central Military Commission put forward the strategic guideline of "North Overhead, South
Release", emphasizing the implementation of diferent operational guidelines in the northern and southern battlefelds
along the eastern coast, i.e., to hold of the enemy's attack to the north of Lianyungang, and to entice the enemy to go
deeper and deeper to the south.

#

From the mid-1960s onwards, the center of gravity of China's national defense policy shifted to the base of preparing
for an early, major and nuclear war, preparing for the coming of the empire, the revisionists and the rebels together,
focusing on two- or even more fronts of warfare, and adhering to the principle of "top-down, bottom-up, luring the enemy
deeper into the country, and eliminating the enemy at depth". At the end of the 1960s, when the Soviet army became the
main target of the war, and the "Three Norths", focusing on northern China, became the main strategic direction, Mao
Zedong put forward the strategic idea of establishing an international united front to oppose Soviet hegemony. In 1977,
the Central Military Commission (CMC) formulated the policy of active defense and luring the enemy deeper into the
country in order to resist the large-scale invasion of the Soviet Union, emphasizing the need to stop the enemy from
advancing into the country in the early stages of the war, and then luring the enemy deeper into the predetermined
battlefelds to annihilate them. During this period, national defense construction was the center of the country's work,
national war preparations were launched, the "two bombs and one star" were successfully developed, the military struggle
along the southeast coast was conducted, and self-defense counterattacks on the Sino-Indian border, the Jumbo Island,
and the Xisha Islands were carried out, as well as military operations to aid the Vietnamese and the elderly in their
struggle against the United States. After exploding its frst atomic bomb, China announced its nuclear policy of no frst
use of nuclear weapons, fully refecting the defensive nature of its national defense policy. The major adjustment of our
national defense policy.

While it was positive in deterring a possible full-scale invasion of China, the country's prolonged state of readiness
to go to war also afected economic development and the long-term development of the military.

#

The development of national defence policy over the past 30 years since the founding of New China has been characterized
by the following main features.

First, we insist on a strategic rearguard action. In the years of the Revolutionary War, the practice of strategic
defence and rearguard action was mainly based on the situation in which the enemy was strong and we were weak. After the
founding of New China, the continued practice of strategic defence and preemptive rearguard action was mainly determined
by the country's nature, mission and foreign policy. As early as April 1954, Mao Zedong clearly pointed out that China's
strategic policy was active defense, never pre-emptive. To take the initiative to pre-empt is by no means a sign of
weakness or incompetence, but rather a sign of "if no one ofends me, I will not ofend; if someone ofends me, I will
defnitely ofend him".

#

Secondly, we must be prepared to deal with sudden events and large-scale foreign invasions. Since the founding of New
China, we have always emphasized the dangers of a major war, but there have been diferences in our judgments about the
real dangers of war in diferent periods of history. In the 1950s, the main emphasis was on preparing for possible sudden
changes and preventing sudden imperialist attacks. Since it was a "sudden event", it did not necessarily have to happen.
After the mid-1960s, the real danger of a large-scale war of aggression against China was $\%$ assessed more seriously,
and the inevitability and urgency of war were emphasized. This was mainly due to the deterioration of the security
environment, but also to subjective cognitive biases and fawed judgments.

#

Thirdly, we must build our national defence forces through selfreliance. Independence and self-reliance are the living
soul of Mao Zedong's thought, as well as the basic approach to national construction and defence modernization. The
Central Committee of the CPC and Mao Zedong established the establishment of an independent, complete and modernized
national defence industrial system as the overall goal of national defence development. This has enabled us to build not
only a complete and integrated conventional weapons and equipment system, but also to achieve leapfrog development
through the independent development of the "two bombs" and the "two satellites", following the sudden cessation of
foreign aid. This policy has been refected in our military construction, that is, we have to insist on the principle of
"our own strength" and combine learning from the experience of foreign armies with China's actual situation.

Fourthly, we should implement a national defense based on universal soldiering. Adhere to and develop the idea of
people's war. This has always been the cornerstone of New China's national defence policy and military strategy. The
militia system, which is the fne tradition of China's revolutionary war efort, has been fully developed since the
founding of New China. The 1949 Common Program of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC)
explicitly stipulated in law that a militia system was to be practiced in China. In June 1957, the Central Military
Commission proposed the establishment of a system of national defense reserve forces that included both the militia and
the reserves. In August 1958, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China put forward the idea of "organizing
the militia in such a way as to make the whole nation a military force".

#

#

Fifthly, the leadership of the Communist Party of China in national defence must be upheld. The absolute leadership of
the Party over the armed forces is the primary principle on which the People's Army is built. The 1954 Constitution
stipulates that the President of the People's Republic of China is in charge of the armed forces of the country and is
the Chairman of the National Defense Commission, and that the State Council has the authority to lead the building of
the armed forces. In September of the same year, the Politburo of the CPC Central Committee made a resolution stating
that, as in the past, a military committee of the Party must be set up under the Politburo and the Secretariat of the
CPC Central Committee to assume leadership of the entire military work. The revival of the Central Military Commission
of the CPC guaranteed the absolute leadership of the Party over the armed forces in terms of organization and structure.

#

II. National defence policy and its characteristics in the context of an era where peace and development are the main
themes

At the end of the 1970s, peace and development became the theme of the times, and the focus of the work of the entire
Party shifted to modernization centred on economic construction. China's national defense policy underwent a major shift
as well. In October 1980, the Central Military Commission (CMC) adjusted the strategic policy of active defense and
luring the enemy deeper into the enemy to the strategic policy of "active defense". Although this adjustment was still
based on the Great War, it laid the foundation for the ideological emancipation of the subsequent strategic shift.

We have also made new adjustments to our foreign policy in the light of our judgment and the fact that we no longer
adhere to the "one-line" strategy. On the basis of these two changes, the guiding ideology of military construction
underwent a strategic shift from a state of readiness to fght early, big and nuclear wars to a track of peacetime
construction. In 1988, the Central Military Commission re-established an active defense military strategy, making it
clear that the focus should be on dealing with possible local wars and military conficts and proposing the strategic
guidance of stabilizing the northern front, strengthening the southern front, reinforcing the borders and consolidating
defenses, and strategizing about the oceans and seas. During this period, our army fought in self-defense along the
Sino-Vietnamese border and in the Nansha Sea Battle. The Central Military Commission (CMC) made the strategic decision
to disarm one million troops, comprehensively adjusted and reformed the military establishment in accordance with the
principles of leanness, synthesis and high efciency, and formed the Army Synthesized Group Army and strengthened the
synthesis of all types of military units. At the same time, reserve forces have been formed and developed in accordance
with the principle of putting the military to work for the people, and the militarization of the national defence
reserves has been raised to make up for the shortfall in the country's armed forces following the downsizing and
integration of active-duty forces. The national defense leadership system has also undergone major reforms, with the
1982 Constitution providing for the establishment of the Central Military Commission, which is elected by the National
People's Congress, and for the implementation of a presidential system of responsibility by the Central Military
Commission. The Party's Central Military Commission and the state's Central Military Commission are composed of the same
people and have the same leadership functions over the military. Such a system not only ensures absolute leadership of
the armed forces, but also facilitates the use of State machinery to strengthen national defence and military
construction in a comprehensive manner.

#

#

In the 1990s, the bipolar pattern disintegrated and the world began a new period of multi-polarization. Peace and
development remain the theme of the times, and the international situation tends to ease on the whole, but there is a
serious imbalance in the international balance of power. The rapid development of high technology centered on
information technology and its extensive application in the military feld have profoundly changed the shape and mode of
modern warfare. Focusing on the development of the times, Jiang Zemin has made new major adjustments to the national
defense policy and military strategy. He pointed out that military strategy is ultimately a way to make a nation, and
must be closely coordinated with the economy, politics and diplomacy of the whole country; that the policy of active
defense is our heirloom, but that it should be inherited and developed in a realistic manner in accordance with the
changes in the situation; and that it is necessary to have a deeper understanding of the post-cold-war world's military
struggles and the importance of the military strategy.

The Central Military Commission has made great eforts to $2 4 1 \div$ develop national defence science and technology in
the light of the new characteristics of the struggle. In January 1993, the Central Military Commission formulated a
strategic military policy of active defense for the new period, clearly proposing that the basis of preparation for the
military struggle should be to win local wars that might be fought under the conditions of modern technology, especially
high technology. As we enter the new century, the Central Military Commission has made it a priority to prepare for the
military struggle by focusing on winning local wars under conditions of informationization.

#

Under the guidance of the military strategic policy for the new period, our military has strengthened the building of
combat forces, with the navy, air force and two artillery pieces as the main focus; carried out in-depth restructuring
and reforms of the system and establishment; reduced the number of troops by a total of 700,000 on two occasions;
organized a series of military deterrent operations against Taiwan independence; completed the garrisoning of troops in
Hong Kong and Macao; and invested in the "September $8 "$ food rescue and relief struggle on a large scale, among other
things. We have also organized a series of military deterrent operations against "Taiwan independence", completed the
task of stationing troops in Hong Kong and Macao, and made large-scale investments in the "September $8 "$ food rescue
and relief campaign. In 1995, China issued the "China's Arms Control and Disarmament White Paper", and since 1998, we
have issued a white paper on national defence every two years, explaining the main content and basic rationale of our
national defence policy, and demonstrating our unswerving commitment to the concept and practice of a defensive national
defence policy.

At this new stage of the new century, peace, development and cooperation have become the trend of the times, and the
international security situation has remained generally stable, but factors of instability and uncertainty are also on
the rise. The world is still very uneasy, and the security situation in China presents a series of new features and
trends. The internal and external environments facing national defence and military construction have undergone profound
changes. Hu Jintao's thoughts on national defence policy for the new century and new stage require that national defence
and military construction and operation must be subordinate to and serve the Party's historical mission, safeguard the
fundamental interests of the State and the nation, and implement the scientifc concept of development in all areas and
throughout the entire process of national defence and military construction.

#

From the perspective of long-term strategic interests, Hu Jintao has clearly elevated the interests of national
development to the same level of importance as security interests, emphasizing that the fundamental focus of the army's
historical mission in the new century and new stage is to safeguard national sovereignty, security and unity, and to
protect the interests of national development. The army has to deal with both traditional and non-traditional security
threats, safeguard both the country's survival and development interests, and protect the interests of the country.

It is also necessary to safeguard homeland security and the security of overseas interests; it is necessary to safeguard
the overall situation of national reform, development and stability, as well as to maintain world peace and promote
common development. Safeguarding national interests means adhering to the unity of security and development and seeking
comprehensive national political, economic, military and social security. The white paper China's National Defense 2006
systematically elaborates on the defensive national defense policy for the new century and the new stage. The main
elements are: safeguarding national security and unity; safeguarding the interests of national development; and
realizing national defense. The main elements are: safeguarding national security and unity, safeguarding the interests
of national development; achieving comprehensive, coordinated and sustainable development of national defence and
military construction; strengthening the quality construction of the military, with informatization as the main
hallmark; implementing the strategic military policy of active defence; adhering to the nuclear strategy of
self-defence; and creating a security environment conducive to the country's peaceful development.

The development of China's national defense policy in the 30- odd years since the reform and opening up of China is
mainly characterized by the following features.

First, national security and development interests should be the paramount criterion. Deng Xiaoping proposed that in
dealing with State relations, we should not draw lines on the basis of social systems and ideologies, but should talk
about and deal with issues on the basis of one's own national interests as the highest criterion. Jiang Zemin emphasized
that national interests should come frst in dealing with state-to-state relations, and that national sovereignty and
security should be the frst and foremost national interest. Hu Jintao said that we should place the defense of national
sovereignty, security and territorial integrity and the safeguarding of national development interests above all else.
The frst and foremost element of the scientifc concept of development is development, and safeguarding the interests of
national development is a red thread running through the entire mission of the military.

#

Secondly, the modernization of national defence should be promoted on the basis of economic development. Deng Xiaoping
put forward the idea that national defence construction should be subordinate to the overall situation of the country's
economic construction and that the military "must be patient", thus creating important conditions for the country to
concentrate its eforts on economic development. Jiang Zemin put forward the idea of balancing and coordinating the
development of national defense construction and economic construction, emphasizing the formation of military strength
that is coordinated with economic strength and in line with the needs of national defense construction, and the
formation of a mechanism for mutual promotion and coordinated development of national defense construction and economic
construction. Hu Jintao has further proposed that the modernization of national defence and the military be deeply
integrated into the economic and social development system, so that the process of modernizing the national defence and
the military will be consistent with the modernization of the State.

Thirdly, we insist on the positive defensive nature of military strategy. The socialism we are practising is a socialism
that advocates peace; our strategy has always been defensive, and even after modernization in the future it will still
be a strategic defence. Therefore, the continuation of the military strategy of active defense is fundamentally
determined by the nature of the country, inherits the tradition of our army and is in line with our national and
military conditions. Active defence is not purely defensive; it is an ofensive defence that includes counter-ofensives
and ofensives, and combines attack and defense. It is a combination of attack and defense. This kind of defense is the
unifcation of eforts to control wars in times of peace and preparations to win wars of selfdefense, and the unifcation
of strategic defense and ofensive action in battles in times of war. The army must develop the capacity to respond to
various security threats and to accomplish diverse military tasks, so as to be able to efectively respond to crises,
maintain peace, control wars and win wars in all kinds of complex situations.

Fourthly, we must follow the path of an elite army with Chinese characteristics. National circumstances and military
conditions dictate that it is necessary to maintain a certain size of our army, but the key is to achieve high-quality
and efcient development of national defence and military construction. We must implement the strategy of strengthening
the military through science and technology, and comprehensively improve the scientifc and technological content of
military construction. Relying on scientifc and technological progress, we will realize the transformation of the army's
mode of generating combat power, and strengthen the quality of the army's construction with informationization as the
main symbol. We will actively and steadily push forward national defense and military reform, innovate and develop
military doctrine, adjust and reform institutions and establishments, and adjust and improve policies and systems. We
will actively push forward military transformation with Chinese characteristics, taking the path of
informationization-led, mechanization-informationizationintegrated development, and realizing the overall transformation
of the army.

Fifthly, the maintenance of regional and world peace. Peacefulness is an important feature of China's national defense
policy. It is a key feature of China's national defense policy. In the frst three decades, the task of national defense
policy was to strive for peace for a longer period of time and to postpone the outbreak of war as much as possible. In
the era of peace and development, maintaining a peaceful international and neighboring environment and safeguarding the
country's peaceful development have become the basic goals of national defense policy. Deng Xiaoping said that one of
China's national interests is to eradicate poverty and another is to maintain peace. Our army should approach the
international community with a positive attitude of openness and cooperation, selfconfdence and self-improvement, peace
and civilization, so as to make greater contributions to the maintenance of world peace and the promotion of common
development.

III. National defence policy and its characteristics in the new era, with a view to moving the country from strength to
strength

The world today is undergoing a major change not seen in a century, with signifcant changes in the international
strategic landscape, the global metallurgical system and the competition for comprehensive national power. China is at a
critical stage in its transition from strength to strength, and faces a more complex security and development situation.
Socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era, and the Chinese nation has ushered in a great leap from
standing up, getting rich to becoming strong. National defence and military construction have entered a new era, and we
have taken frm steps on the road to a strong military with Chinese characteristics.

#

Since the 18th CPC National Congress, President Xi has put forward the Party's goal of strengthening the military in the
new era with a view to realizing the "two-hundred-year" goal and the Chinese dream of the great rejuvenation of the
Chinese nation, innovated in the development of military strategic guidance, formulated a strategic approach to the
military under the new circumstances and in the new era, constructed a modern combat system with Chinese
characteristics, adhered to the principles of political construction of the military, strengthening the military by
reform, developing the military through science and technology, and ruling the military according to law,
comprehensively deepened national defense and military reform, and resolutely defended national territorial sovereignty
and maritime interests. Xi Jinping's thoughts on strengthening the military have been formed by insisting on building
the military through politics, reforming the military, developing the military through science and technology, and
governing the military according to the law, comprehensively deepening the reform of the national defense and the
military, and resolutely defending the country's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests. The Xi
Jinping Thought on a Strong Military has been formed, in which the important thought on national defense policy in the
new era occupies an important place.

Under the guidance of Xi Jinping's thought on strengthening the military, the modernization of the national defence and
military forces has accelerated, mechanization has been basically completed, information construction has been solidly
advanced, and the military's level of actual combat has been greatly improved. The People's Army has achieved a
revolutionary reshaping of its organizational structure and force system, building a new system of army leadership,
management and operational command; optimizing its size and force structure, cutting 300,000 army posts and reshaping
its force structure and layout; pushing forward reforms of the military policy system and establishing a sound system of
socialist military policies and institutions with Chinese characteristics; and making signifcant progress in preparing
for the military struggle, comprehensively improving its ability to prepare for and fght war in the new era; It has
organized a series of major military operations and resolutely defended the core interests of the country.

#

The basic principle of a defensive national defense policy will not change, but its contemporary connotation will evolve
as the security situation and national defense needs change. President Xi has gained a deep insight into the
international situation and the evolution of war patterns, and has keenly grasped the state of the nation and the
military, forming the national defense policy for the new era.

Policy Ideas. The White Paper "China's National Defense in the New Era" elaborates the basic elements of China's
national defense policy in the new era in fve areas: fundamental objectives, distinctive features, strategic guidance,
development path and global signifcance. The white paper elaborates the $x = \frac { 1 } { 2 }$ basic elements of
China's national defense policy in the new era in fve areas: resolutely defending national sovereignty, security and
development interests; insisting on never claiming hegemony, never expanding, and never seeking a sphere of infuence;
implementing the military strategic policy for the new era; adhering to the path of strengthening the military with
$\pi$ Chinese characteristics; and serving the building of a common destiny for humankind. On the premise of adhering to
a defensive national defense policy, we should actively adapt to the new pattern of strategic competition, the new
demands of national security, and the new forms of modern warfare, comprehensively implement the overall concept of
national security, give more prominence to far-reaching strategies, more to comprehensive gaming, and more to all-area
coalition, so as to efectively carry out the mission and tasks of the military in the new era, and to move the cause of
strengthening the military forward continuously.

#

The main features of the important ideas on national defense policy in the new era are as follows.

First, we must obey and serve the major goal of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Military is subordinate to
politics, and strategy is subordinate to political strategy. Under the conditions of the new era, the strategic goal of
the Party and the State is to realize the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and national defence policy and
military strategy must be subordinate to and serve the supreme interests of the State in the population and the nation.
A strong nation must have a strong army, and consolidating national defence and a strong people's army are the strategic
support for upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics and realizing the great rejuvenation of the
Chinese nation in the new era. This major goal requires us to unswervingly follow the path of peaceful development,
insisting that we will never claim hegemony, expand or seek spheres of infuence, and actively contribute to the building
of a community of human destiny.

#

#

Secondly, we insist on the unity of the defensive nature of our national defence policy and our determination to
safeguard our national interests. Our country is a socialist country, pursues a peaceful foreign policy and adheres to
the path of peaceful development, which fundamentally determines our unswerving adherence to a defensive national
defence policy and an active defence military strategy. However, we must adhere to the principle of being bold in our
struggle, never taking a step backward, never losing an inch of territory, and no one should expect us to swallow the
bitter fruits that jeopardize our sovereignty, security and development interests. We must adhere to the principle of
ofensive defense, enhance the positive and proactive nature of our strategic guidance, and be good at planning and
creating new opportunities.

We should strengthen our strategy, be more aggressive, emphasize policy and tactics, and make good use of the frst move
and the initiative.

Thirdly, we must realize the Party's goal of building a strong army in the new era. The goal of building a strong
people's army has diferent connotations at diferent times in history. The Party's goal of building a strong army in the
new era is to build a people's army that obeys the Party's command, is capable of winning battles and operates with good
style, and to build the people's army into a world-class army. Listening to the Party's command, being able to win
battles and acting with good style are the three key elements of army building and governance, determining the direction
of the army's development as well as its survival and demise. This goal must be in line with the current national
cruising process, and in accordance with the new strategic arrangements for the modernization of national defence and
the military, we must build a world-class army that is commensurate with China's status as a powerful nation, that can
efectively safeguard national security, and that has strong international infuence.

#

#

Fourthly, reform and innovation have become the only way to strengthen and develop the People's Army. The history of the
development of the people's army is a history of reform and innovation; we have come to the present by reform and
innovation, and we will rely on reform and innovation to win the future. It is necessary to deepen the reform of
national defense and the military, reshape the leadership and command system, optimize the size and structure of the
force, establish a sound system of military policies and institutions, and accelerate the construction of a modern
military force system with Chinese characteristics capable of winning information-based wars and efectively fulflling
missions. Put innovation in a more prominent position, and comprehensively implement an innovation-driven development
strategy. We will make great eforts to grasp theoretical innovation, scientifc and technological innovation, scientifc
management, talent pooling, and innovation in practice, in order to build an innovative people's army.

#

Fifthly, we should strengthen the important strategic position of civil-military integration. Civilian-military
integration is a way to develop the nation and strengthen the military, and it is the only way to achieve development
and security, and to unify rich countries and a strong military. We must insist that our national defense is the
national defense of all people, gather national will, exert national eforts, and promote the implementation of
civil-military integration, accelerate the formation of an allfactor, multidisciplinary, highly efective pattern of
in-depth development of civil-military integration, and strive to build an integrated national strategic system and
capability. China

(Editor: Xu Yonghan)