# **Weaponization of Cognition and AI Cognitive Warfare**

# **Machine learning and behavioral experimental research**

# **Zeng Qingming‧Mao Weizhun**

# **Key points**

Based on natural language processing and machine learning, the author constructed a behavioral experiment and control study using ChatGPT for 173 cases of US foreign policies and behaviors from 1950 to 2024, covering five types of events: US sanctions and embargoes, Security Council vetoes, military intervention, regime change, and overseas operations. Although large language models have not been openly used for murder, military sabotage, or systematic cognitive attack and defense and infiltration, and there is no public and clear strategic policy implementation or text declaration of large language model cognitive attack and defense operations, OpenAI's ChatGPT model exhibits significant cognitive security risks. This cognitive threat is characterized by long-term, hidden, and precise nature. Its potential cognitive lethality and cognitive "colonization" capabilities cannot be ignored. ChatGPT can selectively present information and fabricate facts, and shape and reverse user cognition and thinking patterns, guiding users to have positive emotions towards the legitimacy of U.S. foreign policies and behaviors, thereby achieving cognitive manipulation. The content generated by ChatGPT shows a trend of positive and negative polarized emotional mobilization at the three levels of text, narrative and emotion. It amplifies its own legitimacy and beautifies its own image through "exaggeration", "presumption of innocence" and "retreat to advance", and stigmatizes and demonizes the image of competitors through "frame-up", "fabrication" and "presumption of guilt". Artificial intelligence cognitive warfare based on large language models has become a covert, precise, low-cost and high-yield non-kinetic combat tool. Artificial intelligence cognitive warfare exploits human cognitive weaknesses and thinking biases, subtly implements thought induction and cognitive manipulation, realizes "cognitive weaponization", and poses a major threat to national security in the cognitive domain.

# **Keywords**

artificial intelligence; ChatGPT; cognitive warfare; algorithm; machine learning; behavioral experiment

# **About the Author**

## **Zeng Qingming is a doctoral student at the School of International Relations, Nanjing University. Mao Weizhun is a researcher at the Digital Innovation Laboratory of Chinese Civilization, Nanjing University, and a professor at the Asia-Pacific Development Research Center, Nanjing University (Nanjing, zip code: 210033).**

# **Artificial intelligence, big data and algorithms are gradually changing the form of warfare**

It has also given rise to cognitive warfare based on cognitive domain algorithms, greatly expanding the scope of warfare. Traditional propaganda warfare and information warfare focus on information dissemination and control; unlike this, AI-driven cognitive warfare targets people’s cognitive processes more deeply, and aims to fundamentally change the audience’s cognition and behavior through precise information manipulation.

It can be seen that cognitive warfare has developed into a new form of modern warfare supported by reliable data, powerful computing power, and driven by efficient algorithms, namely "algorithmic cognitive warfare." In algorithmic cognitive warfare, the speed and accuracy of information become the key to combat effectiveness. The algorithmization and intelligence of cognitive warfare have further enhanced the asymmetry of warfare.

## **So, do generative large language AI models represented by ChatGPT have the potential to achieve cognitive weaponization? This study attempts to reveal the possible mechanism by which large language model-generated content creates cognitive risks and is used in algorithmic cognitive warfare, and to clarify the consequences and risks of AI weaponization and algorithmic cognitive warfare.**

# **literature review**

With the rapid development of artificial intelligence technology, especially the emergence of generative large language models, cognitive warfare is being conducted in a more covert, efficient and intelligent way. Academic research on artificial intelligence cognitive warfare is mainly reflected in the following six aspects.

# **1\. The core of cognitive warfare**

First, the academic community has found that the core of cognitive warfare is to influence and change the cognitive and decision-making process of the enemy through information manipulation and psychological tactics. By embedding and reinforcing specific political biases, language models may unconsciously influence the public's cognition and decision-making, and thus be maliciously used for information manipulation. The language model has already embedded certain political biases or preferences in the pre-training stage, and this bias may reflect certain dominant values. These biases are further strengthened during the generation process of the model, gradually influencing the audience's views and attitudes through subtle tones and information selection.

David Rozado found through experiments that when input political or ideological issues or statements, large language models such as OpenAI ChatGPT, Google Gemini, and Anthropic Claude generated content with obvious center-left liberal ideological tendencies. The authors infer that the political bias or preference exhibited by large language models is deeply embedded before model pre-training, and that the political bias is further reinforced after pre-training and user input. In addition, Rosado also demonstrated through a political values ​​questionnaire experiment that OpenAI's large language model exhibits significant political bias on normative issues and political values, which can provide opportunities for cognitive domain combat operations, the spread of misleading information, and the reversal of political attitudes and preferences.

Vahid Ghafouri and others found through behavioral experiments that when ChatGPT faces politically controversial issues and issues involving political values, the political bias embedded in the pre-training phase will cause the content generated by ChatGPT to reinforce preconceived ideas or spread false information. In addition, ChatGPT has a certain degree of liberal tendencies and has a right-wing political spectrum.

# **2\. Tactics of cognitive warfare**

## **Second, some studies have found that cognitive warfare is a tactic that influences the cognition, emotions and behavior of target groups through information manipulation, psychological tactics and discourse strategies. Its core is to influence or even control others' cognition and decision-making through precise information operations. Zuo Junzhan pointed out that "cognitive domain warfare" is the basic way for the United States to conduct mental games and mental confrontations. It is not only an extension of information warfare and psychological warfare, but also a way to influence and manipulate enemy decisions and behaviors.**

A deep-level strategic means. Han Na and Dong Xiaoyu believe that the "cognitive domain" has gradually become an important issue affecting global security in the digital age; cognitive warfare includes accurate identification in the observation stage, information processing in the guidance stage, information integration in the decision-making stage, subject coordination in the action stage, and information feedback in the evaluation stage, forming a complete cognitive manipulation chain. Kris McGuffie and Alex Newhous found through experiments that GPT3 generates ideological narratives of far-right radicalism or violent extremism, which have extremely high interactive experience, information agitation and propaganda influence, and are therefore very likely to be "weaponized" and used for radical violence without restriction.

Third, some studies focus on the transformation of artificial intelligence technology from a single technical means to a comprehensive technical model, and believe that this transformation has brought about problems such as algorithm interference, information cocoon, user privacy infringement, and information distortion, directly or indirectly providing new tools for cognitive warfare, greatly enhancing the influence and effectiveness of cognitive warfare. Claudia Biancotti and Carolina Camassa's experiment showed that ChatGPT has the phenomenon of "flattery", tending to keep its output highly consistent with the opinions and views expressed by users in the initial prompt and subsequent conversations, thus causing users to fall into information cocoons and political polarization. Fang Xingdong and Zhong Xiangming believe that artificial intelligence technology has brought about the dilemma of algorithm interference, leading to information filtering and bias, intensified information cocoon phenomenon, user privacy infringement, and information distortion, making the means and strategies of cognitive warfare more diverse and efficient, and also making cognitive warfare more penetrating and destructive. Through political tendency experiments, Chen Yang and others found that large language models represented by ChatGPT will form behavioral biases from the input end, are extremely sensitive to framing and reference points, and are easily influenced by suggestive questions and statements, resulting in a large number of biased answers.

Guo Yonghu and Zhang Hanyu proposed that cognitive warfare has various means, including public opinion warfare, psychological warfare, information warfare, algorithmic warfare and cyberspace warfare, which can coordinately influence the enemy's cognition and behavior patterns to control, disintegrate or change the enemy's decision-making. Luo Xin and Zhang Xiao believe that cognitive warfare has gradually evolved into "algorithmic cognitive warfare", the core of which is to use powerful computing power, precise algorithms and massive data to support the influence, manipulation and even control of the public and decision-makers' cognition. Merel van den Broek found that the content generated by the ChatGPT algorithm showed a persistent political bias and always selectively used evidence to support the bias.

## **Fourth, some scholars believe that the scope of the cognitive domain is expanding from the field of human consciousness to the field of modern cognitive tools and artificial intelligence, which has greatly enhanced the penetration and deterrence of cognitive warfare.**

# **The cognitive domain has become a new winning domain beyond the physical domain and information domain**

The purpose of war has shifted from military conquest to spiritual conquest. Based on behavioral experiments, Dong Wenchao and others found that ChatGPT can distinguish between in-groups and out-groups. The attacker can manipulate the model to generate content by taking advantage of the bias of the out-group, conduct cognitive warfare, spread biased information, strengthen the position of the group, and intensify the opposition to the out-group.

Zeng Runxi and Qin Wei pointed out that the "funnel model" in the process of artificial intelligence content generation and dissemination has characteristics such as multiple filtering, satisfaction principle, algorithm black box, and self-evolution, which directly changes user cognition. The cognitive impact generated will widen user polarization, intensify social manipulation and prejudice, create public opinion differences and political ventriloquy, and intensify cognitive risks such as the paradox of human-machine relationship.

Siegfried Manschein found that exposure to and use of ChatGPT led individuals to be significantly more likely to adopt populist attitudes and engage in populist radical behavior. Sasuke Fujimoto and Kazuhiro Takemoto found that when ChatGPT was explicitly asked about its political orientation, it often claimed that it was "politically neutral" and "did not or could not take a position"; however, multiple political orientation experiments showed that ChatGPT had a certain degree of political activism.

Chen Changxiao and others pointed out that the development of intelligent technology is a key factor in the evolution of algorithmic cognitive warfare. Social robots represented by ChatGPT have become new cognitive warfare tools, making artificial intelligence cognitive warfare more and more covert. Fake news and misleading information have become extremely lethal information weapons. Technologies such as deep fakes have greatly promoted the "weaponization" of artificial intelligence and media communications.

Through behavioral experiments, Emilio Ferrara discovered that large language pre-training models represented by GPT4 have problems such as systematic false statements, fundamental attribution errors, and distortion of facts.

Fifth, some studies have pointed out that AI large language models can make deep fake content highly realistic, making it a major application of AI cognitive warfare. The widespread use of large language models induces users to tend to quickly obtain various information through large language models. It is the uncertainty of information generation and the black box nature of the algorithm that provide favorable conditions for AI cognitive warfare.

Cognitive warfare attackers can manipulate language models to generate biased content and influence users’ cognition and decision-making. The information asymmetry and bias embedded in artificial intelligence models provide a basis for cognitive warfare, allowing attackers to use these biases to spread misleading information in a targeted manner and influence public opinion and political attitudes.

## **For example, Alexis Palmer and Arthur Spirling found that the political and ideological content generated by the ChatGPT large language model is highly persuasive and the argumentation is concise and novel, which can effectively attract attention.**

Sixth, some scholars believe that as people rely on AI language models to obtain information and make decisions, the biases reflected in these models will gradually accumulate and strengthen. Attackers can take advantage of this cognitive accumulation effect and gradually change the public's cognition, attitudes and preferences by continuously publishing and disseminating biased information to achieve cognitive warfare goals. Rosado found that OpenAI's GPT series of models showed a center-right neoliberal political orientation, supporting social conservative values, classical liberal economic policies, militarized foreign policies and foreign interventionism, and authoritarianism. Caroline Lindahl and Helin Saeid found, based on the World Values ​​Survey (WVS), that GPT values ​​are embedded in the values ​​of Western developed countries and tend to question certain political systems and political institutions.

At present, there are two main limitations in the research on AI big language models and cognitive warfare. First, there is a disconnect between the theory of AI and algorithmic cognitive warfare and the empirical testing of generative big language models. On the one hand, theoretical research focusing on AI-enabled cognitive warfare only proposes the hypothesis that big language models may be weaponized and used for cognitive warfare, but does not propose or verify the specific mechanism of how the content generated by big language models forms cognitive risks and may be used for algorithmic cognitive warfare; on the other hand, most of the empirical research on the cognitive risks of ChatGPT stops at verifying the political bias in the content it generates, and does not explain the consequences or risks of AI weaponization and algorithmic cognitive warfare based on empirical results. In other words, there is a theoretical and empirical gap between the cognitive risks of ChatGPT and the algorithmic cognitive warfare and weaponization of ChatGPT.

Second, the themes and standards of behavioral experiments on generative large language models are too centralized and singular. The vast majority of large language model behavioral experiments come from the fields of computer science, communication, and linguistics, focusing on hot topics such as political correctness, mainstream values, opinion formation and dissemination, and semantic analysis in the Western context. Research in the field of political science focuses on measuring and "labeling" the position of ChatGPT on the political ideology spectrum. At present, a few studies have explored the potential impact of ChatGPT on citizens' political behavior, political attitudes, and public opinion. In the field of international security and national security, domestic and foreign academic circles rarely conduct behavioral experimental research on ChatGPT, especially its potential and risks in the field of cognitive warfare and weaponization.

## **Based on this, this study attempts to apply behavioral experimental methods, focusing on the operation of ChatGPT on the foreign policy and behavioral text narratives of specific countries, and inferring the impact of generative large language models represented by ChatGPT by comparing whether there are significant differences between the content generated by ChatGPT and the real content.**

# **Do AI models have the potential to weaponize cognition?**

## **Assess the significant risks it poses to cognitive security as a core platform for algorithmic cognitive warfare.**

# **2 Theoretical Framework: Artificial Intelligence Cognitive Warfare**

## **The emergence of generative large language models provides unprecedented technical support for cognitive warfare. Through large-scale data processing and natural language generation capabilities, these models are able to create precise and influential narratives, thereby effectively controlling and guiding the cognition of the target group.**

# **1\. Cognitive weaponization and cognitive warfare**

With the rapid development of artificial intelligence technology, future wars will extend from the five combat domains of land, sea, air, space and network to the cognitive "sixth domain". Cognitive warfare is a form of modern warfare that transcends the rules of contemporary traditional military tactics and weapon use patterns. From the connotation and extension of the concept, cognitive warfare is often confused with propaganda warfare, psychological warfare, public opinion warfare, information warfare, cyber warfare, etc., all of which are subordinate concepts of grey zone tactics or hybrid warfare. Of course, cognitive warfare is different from various other means of warfare (see Table 1).

# **Table 1 Comparison of cognitive warfare and other hybrid warfare tactics**

| category | Channels of action | Core Behavior | Operational objectives |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Information Warfare | Manipulation, fabrication and falsification of information | Interference, misleading | Decision-making information flow and information authenticity |
| Cyber ​​warfare | Spreading malware and viruses | Invasion, implantation | Computer system, real-time command system |
| Psychological warfare | Manipulation, spreading of emotions and fear | Wear and impact | Willpower, cohesion, and mental strength |
| Public opinion war | Manipulating public opinion and spreading propaganda | Spread, promote | Short-term political attitudes and behavior |
| Cognitive warfare | Strategically present information and facts | Shaping and presenting | Long-term cognitive structure and thinking style |

Source: Author's own.

## **First, cognitive warfare differs from other means of warfare in terms of channels of action, core behaviors, and operational objectives. First, information warfare focuses on disseminating false information through multiple channels to disrupt the opponent's information flow, while cognitive warfare focuses on strategic design and presentation of information and facts. Information and facts in cognitive warfare can be true, but they are carefully designed and presented, selectively emphasized or ignored, with the aim of reshaping or strengthening specific cognitive structures and shaping the opponent's emotional-cognitive reactions and values.**

Judgment. "Both information warfare and cognitive warfare can shape the other party's short-term understanding, perception or attitude towards specific issues through false or misleading content, but cognitive warfare aims to change deeper long-term cognition. Second, cyber warfare aims to attack, interfere with and infiltrate the other party's computer network, seeking direct and immediate control or disruption of the other party's decision-making, while cognitive warfare aims to subtly distort the other party's cognition or shape the cognitive consensus on specific issues through long-term pressure, induction and implantation of cognitive weaknesses. Third, psychological warfare focuses on emotional manipulation, weakening the other party's willpower, cohesion and psychological and mental stability by spreading fear, uncertainty and doubt, while cognitive warfare focuses on cognitive weaknesses and cognitive biases. In particular, psychological warfare often targets the opponent's military personnel or combat targets, aiming to undermine the opponent's will to resist and achieve "destroying the enemy from within", but cognitive warfare has a wider range of targets, including not only combat personnel, but also the opponent's decision-making individuals, groups and ordinary people. Cognitive warfare is not only aimed at changing the opponent's emotions, but more importantly, distorting their way of thinking. Fourth, public opinion warfare (or propaganda warfare) focuses on spreading dissatisfaction and division on a large scale in society or encouraging and inducing collective actions against specific targets or issues, but it is highly exposed and has a short duration of action. Cognitive warfare is extremely concealed, subtly triggering emotional reactions and accumulating cognitive pressure, inducing changes in the opponent's cognition and thinking patterns.

Second, compared with other forms of warfare, cognitive warfare is more covert and more difficult to prevent, and its impact is often subtle and long-term (see Table 2). Cognitive warfare can invisibly weaken the social stability and political security of the target country, thereby creating national security risks. The effectiveness of cognitive warfare lies in its ability to subtly change the way individuals or groups think and make decisions. By creating information that is consistent with the values ​​of the target group, the cognitive warfare attacker can effectively guide the group's emotions and attitudes, and rely on the long-term and subtle accumulation of cognitive pressure to subtly change the way individuals or groups think and make decisions without being easily noticed by the other party.

Compared with cyber attacks, false information or propaganda that are generated quickly and disappear quickly, cognitive patterns and structures will last for a long time once they are guided to change, and cognitive warfare has a more far-reaching impact.

# **Table 2 Comparison of characteristics of cognitive warfare with other types of warfare**

| category | Timeliness | Accuracy | scope | Concealment | Permeability |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |

---

# **Cyber ​​warfare**

Short term High Small Low High

# **Information Warfare**

Short term Low Small Low Low

# **Psychological warfare**

Short term High Small Low High

# **Public opinion war**

Short term Low Large Low Low

# **Cognitive warfare**

Long term High Large High High

Source: Author's own.

Third, cognitive warfare is not just a battle of technology and information, but also a battle of human psychology, thinking, and cognition. In addition to focusing on the selective presentation of information and the interference of false information, cognitive warfare also focuses on extending the combat domain to the fields of neuroscience and cognitive science that "affect brain operations." As shown in Table 3, among various similar concepts, currently only "cognitive warfare" aims to "weaponize" neuroscience and human cognition to affect the cognitive operations, cognitive structures, and psychological states of the target brain.

# **Table 3 Comparison of weaponized objects and corresponding scientific and technological foundations between cognitive warfare and other types of warfare**

| category | Weaponized objects | Corresponding technology |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Cyber ​​warfare | Information systems, communication networks | Computer Science, Cybersecurity, Cryptography |
| Information Warfare | Information flow, data flow | Information Science, Informatics |
| Psychological warfare | Psychological, emotional, and affective | Psychological science, behavioral science |
| Public opinion war | Public Opinion | Communication, Journalism, Public Relations, Media Promotion |
| Cognitive warfare | Cognition, thinking, and neuroscience | Neuroscience, cognitive science, brain science |

## **Source: Author's own.**

# **2\. Artificial Intelligence Cognitive Warfare Based on Generative Large Language Models**

At present, although generative large language models (such as OpenAI's ChatGPT series products) have not been openly used for murder, military attacks or direct destruction of the enemy, their potential for "cognitive warfare" by simulating the complex thinking of the human brain to drop emotional and value "information bombs" and confuse the public cannot be ignored. As users become more dependent on large language models, their embedded artificial intelligence algorithms have the potential to more covertly achieve cognitive manipulation, information distortion and cognitive manipulation operations. In particular, the ChatGPT series of models can automatically generate false information based on users' personalized needs and preferences, write misleading content, and manipulate the target society's public opinion, values ​​and ideology.

The core combat concept of artificial intelligence cognitive warfare is to manipulate the opponent's thinking and control the opponent's cognition, ultimately weakening the enemy's overall combat effectiveness. Compared with physical warfare in the traditional kinetic field, artificial intelligence cognitive warfare is more powerful and covert, and can quietly undermine the enemy's decision-making system. Large language models are rapidly becoming a core force in cognitive warfare due to their outstanding data processing and language generation capabilities. Through intensive training and deep learning, ChatGPT and its iterative products have the autonomous "self-awareness" and feedback error correction mechanism similar to that of the human brain's neural network, and have significant political attitudes and value tendencies. As generative artificial intelligence with value orientations such as ChatGPT and its products become increasingly integrated into users' lives, it is difficult for the audience to avoid being influenced by their source-oriented cognitive biases, and large language models are thus more likely to become tools of cognitive attack and defense.

## **Big data, cloud computing, information networks, artificial intelligence and other technologies have blurred the operational boundaries of artificial intelligence cognitive warfare, making it possible to break free from the limitations of operational dimensions, space and time, and further embed psychological warfare, public opinion warfare, intelligence warfare and other operations to achieve full-dimensional, full-domain, full-time and full-space cognitive offense and defense. On the one hand, artificial intelligence cognitive offense and defense are not restricted by regions and national boundaries. Generative large language models such as ChatGPT can not only exert influence on users in any country and region on a global scale, but also carry out precise cognitive strikes against specific decision-makers, combat troops or public groups in some countries; on the other hand, the computing power, algorithm and data advantages of generative large language models make cognitive offense and defense not limited by time, and can be carried out continuously in peacetime and wartime, for a long time.**

Subtly induce and reverse the cognitive structure of a wide audience or a specific target group, and achieve "cognitive colonization". Therefore, the artificial intelligence cognitive warfare enabled by the generative large language model makes cognitive space warfare present a basic combat posture of full dimension, full domain, and full time and space. Although it has not been used for direct murder, large-scale cognitive attacks, or direct sabotage operations against the enemy, once it is "weaponized", the consequences will be disastrous. ①

The large language model analyzes a large amount of data through algorithms, identifies the cognitive habits and psychological weaknesses of specific groups or individuals, and then manipulates their cognition and behavior through customized information push. ? The "Comprehensive Evaluation of the Credibility of the GPT Model" report points out that the potential of the large language model to be weaponized and used in cognitive warfare lies in the fact that the content generated by the ChatGPT algorithm is a mixture of real information and false and forged information, which induces the user's attention and perceptual stimulation. ③ ChatGPT's generative algorithm strategy takes advantage of this human cognitive and psychological tendency, that is, when the information contains known and credible elements, the public is more likely to accept the authenticity of the entire information. This "real and fake" mixed strategy greatly increases the difficulty of distinguishing the authenticity of information, making false information easier to be believed. ?

Generative AIs such as ChatGPT mix facts and non-factual information they generate to create biased, misleading, and agitational content to impact existing cognition, and have the initial offensive and defensive potential for psychological manipulation and cognitive deception. ChatGPT can disguise misleading content as seemingly credible and logically coherent content, and its confident tone further enhances its cognitive deception, increasing users' trust and acceptance of misleading or biased content.

Compared with "non-kinetic wars" such as psychological warfare, information warfare, public opinion warfare, and cyber warfare, artificial intelligence cognitive warfare based on large language models has significant advantages in five aspects: concealment, efficiency, accuracy, flexibility, and destructiveness:

1. The concealment of AI cognitive warfare. Compared with physical warfare, AI cognitive warfare is more covert and difficult to defend. Large language models have greatly expanded the scope and depth of cognitive warfare, invisibly manipulating information flows to create seemingly natural false information or misleading opinions. Its concealment and extensiveness make it difficult for traditional information and cognitive defense strategies to work. The cognitive warfare content generated by large language models usually exaggerates facts, exaggerates panic, or creates hostility. It is difficult to be identified as false content under information disguise, and can quickly trigger public emotional resonance and chain reactions. Because the United States has the first-mover advantage of generative artificial intelligence, if it embeds the cognitive warfare content of large language models into its public opinion warfare, psychological warfare, and information warfare against China, it will be able to take advantage of the United States' powerful "water army" scale advantage in automatically generating accounts and publishing content, and use large language models to...

---

The algorithm recommendation mechanism embedded in the model and social platform and the penetration of social relationship chains realize active "feeding", large-scale interaction and forwarding. "Therefore, the cognitive content generated in batches by large language models is embedded in the cognitive confrontation of psychological warfare, public opinion warfare, and intelligence warfare as the "raw materials" of cognitive attack and defense. This potential scenario will pose a national security risk to China that cannot be ignored. The cognitive content generated by large language models is more interactive, covers a wider range, and is more likely to affect individual cognition. In the daily use of ChatGPT, users are very likely to be deeply intervened by the cognitive content of human-computer interaction and deep learning without knowing it, and eventually their accumulated cognitive pressure will overwhelm the existing cognitive structure of the brain. At the same time, the application of artificial intelligence technology has also made fake news and deep fake content more realistic and difficult to identify, strengthening the complexity and concealment of artificial intelligence cognitive warfare.

# **Second, the efficiency of AI cognitive warfare**

It is reflected in the cost-benefit efficiency advantage. Algorithmic cognitive warfare breaks through the geographical limitations of traditional warfare, transforming the form of warfare from regional, physical domain material conflicts to global, virtual domain warfare. The key advantage of algorithmic cognitive warfare is that it almost eliminates the direct risks of war. Algorithmic cognitive warfare greatly improves combat effectiveness with its high efficiency and low cost, and minimizes the direct risks in war.

# **The third is the accuracy of AI cognitive warfare**

Large language models and deep learning algorithms can analyze massive amounts of data and identify the psychological and behavioral patterns of target groups, thereby enabling more accurate information operations and psychological manipulation. Driven by large language models, AI cognitive attack and defense demonstrates the characteristics of precise perception, precise prediction, and precise calculation, achieving clarity of combat objectives and customization of content generation. Large language models accurately portray user personality and cognitive characteristics based on massive data sources and feedback content, and use algorithms to build a portrait of the target's value orientation and way of thinking and match cognitive attack and defense content, achieving highly customized and precise feeding of "cognitive bombs" and precise "sniping" of user behavior patterns, preferences, and opinion tendencies.

# **Fourth, the flexibility and adaptability of AI cognitive warfare**

## **This is reflected in the iterative and self-reinforcing characteristics of AI models. The self-learning and optimization capabilities of AI models mean that they can continuously adjust their strategies to adapt to countermeasures. Through continuous selection, large language models can learn more effective propaganda methods to better manipulate the emotions of the target population and gradually undermine their ability to judge objective facts. The cognitive combat environment is changing rapidly, and the content generated by the model also needs to be continuously adjusted and optimized as the environment changes. First, supervised fine-tuning can guide the large language model to be more in line with actual combat needs when generating cognitive attack and defense content based on pre-designed training data and refined parameter adjustments.**

Secondly, AI can define a set of reward models for evaluating the quality and deviation of model-generated content, and then use content feedback to guide the model to gradually improve the generation strategy and reward function, continuously iterate training, and gradually learn to generate content that better meets the needs of cognitive operations. For example, by changing word embeddings, by labeling and changing the understanding and generation methods of certain specific words or concepts in the model, the weight of word embeddings can be gradually adjusted to make the generated content gradually fit the needs of cognitive attack and defense. ①

# **Fifth, the destructiveness of AI cognitive warfare**

The potential weaponization of cognition by the Big Language Model and its potential involvement in cognitive warfare significantly increase the destructiveness and lethality of information. The two-way embedding of algorithm-driven large language models and deepfake technology can not only be used to spread misleading information, shape and manipulate public opinion, but also deepen the rift between hostile parties and undermine their stability and mutual trust. The destructiveness of AI cognitive warfare far exceeds that of traditional propaganda warfare, public opinion warfare, and information warfare, and it achieves the goal of conducting large-scale and precise cognitive distortion operations without the need for human intervention. In particular, the continuously improved multimodal capabilities of large language models have greatly expanded the means of cognitive adversarial warfare, making it possible to use large language models to conduct saturation-based precise cognitive attacks on specific audiences and to use deep fake technology to interfere with enemy decision-making cognition. ChatGPT advances the intelligent level of false information production. It is based on the generation and recognition of multimodal data, images and videos, and can generate realistic false images and videos to commit fraud.

## **From a tactical point of view, once ChatGPT and other cognitive weapons are weaponized, the attacker can use its advantages of "big data top ten models $+$ strong algorithms" to achieve large-scale production and deployment of "cognitive ammunition", quickly saturate the opponent's information environment, form a powerful cognitive offensive and contain the opponent's cognitive thinking, and achieve comprehensive suppression of cognitive offensive and defensive situations. From a strategic point of view, artificial intelligence cognitive warfare focuses on attrition warfare and protracted warfare, destroying or interfering with enemy cognition based on artificial intelligence means such as large language models. Algorithmic cognitive warfare based on ChatGPT can invisibly weaken the enemy's fighting will and resistance in an extremely covert way. Algorithmic cognitive warfare uses the mode of attrition warfare and protracted warfare to maximize the impact on the opponent's cognitive stability without spending any military cost, and achieve the goal of "defeating the enemy without fighting".**

# **3\. Artificial Intelligence Cognitive Warfare: Text, Narrative, and Mobilization**

Since large language models have the prospect of being "generalized" and "weaponized" on a large scale by countries with artificial intelligence technology advantages and used for external cognitive offense and defense, the "weaponization" process of artificial intelligence cognitive warfare has become an issue that needs to be analyzed. Specifically, artificial intelligence cognitive warfare includes three components: "ammunition", "weapons" and "targets".

# **First**

Information flows carried by text are the "ammunition" of AI cognitive warfare. First, ChatGPT is used to generate massive texts or information flows that exceed the target's cognitive processing ability or thinking comprehension ability, so as to achieve a state of content overload and information drowning. The cognitive warfare attacker creates excessive content and text that is difficult to distinguish between true and false based on the large language model, and uses the target group's cognitive confusion to induce them to lose their way in the massive text and information and fall into a cognitive trap. Secondly, once the target group falls into a state of cognitive confusion, the ChatGPT algorithm "tailors" an information cocoon for them, selectively emphasizing or amplifying certain information, while ignoring or distorting other information, causing the audience to have cognitive biases in their judgment of facts. After the manipulator creates an information cocoon, it will further solidify the audience's attitude, leading to cognitive bias and cognitive closure, and shaping a false "cognitive environment."

# **second**

## **Narrative is the "weapon" of AI cognitive warfare. Narrative is not only a tool for disseminating information, but also a core mechanism for organizing and interpreting information. Due to the limitations of human individual social cognition in processing information, manipulators can take advantage of people's "cognitive loopholes". "Weaponized narrative" plays a key role in AI algorithm cognitive warfare, and acts as a "narrative bomb" in the process of cognitive formation or change through narrative manipulation. Large language models have the ability to process massive amounts of data and generate targeted content. They influence the opponent's psychology and decision-making process by manipulating information flow and narrative methods, making them a powerful cognitive warfare tool. It can be seen that large language models can create and disseminate narratives that are highly targeted and contagious in a very short period of time, identify cognitive loopholes and emotional trends through precise algorithms, and generate narrative content that meets the expectations of specific target audiences, making AI cognitive warfare more effective in influencing the opponent's cognition and emotions.**

The large language model can create and produce influential, infectious, and provocative event narratives.

Third, mobilization is the "target" of AI cognitive warfare. The potential of AI in cognitive warfare is reflected in its ability to guide cognition and conduct propaganda and mobilization. The emotional expression of cognitive domain warfare generated by the large language model is manifested as explicit expression or implicit pre-embedding, deeply rooted in clear opinions and attitudes or vague cognitive positions, obtaining the other party's emotional recognition and empathy, and achieving emotional mobilization. ChatGPT generates false content and puts users in a high cognitive pressure environment where text and content are repeatedly exposed and repeatedly stimulated. The cognitive threshold and cost of users accepting false content will continue to decrease, and ultimately "reversing black and white" will be achieved. Users are continuously induced and manipulated in a high cognitive pressure environment, gradually accepting and trusting false texts and information, and their vigilance and critical thinking ability decrease.

# **Therefore, the two hypotheses to be tested in this study can be expressed as:**

# **Hypothesis 1: “Confusing right and wrong”**

Artificial intelligence large language models are able to "confuse right and wrong" and shape cognition and thinking patterns by selectively presenting information and falsifying facts, thus having the potential for algorithmic cognitive warfare.

Artificial intelligence technology has significantly enhanced the attacker's ability to launch cognitive attacks in cognitive warfare. The large language model widely mobilizes public opinion and forces, driving negative emotions such as suspicion, panic and anxiety to continue to ferment within the opponent, inducing the opponent's internal instability or even collapse, and ultimately gaining an overwhelming cognitive offensive advantage. ?Conflict in the cognitive domain aims to strategically exploit these competing functions and cognitive biases that limit the rationality of different actors in order to cause distortions in thinking and emotional representations and thus change decisions. The attacker conducts large-scale sentiment analysis and pattern recognition based on the model, which greatly improves the efficiency and accuracy of the attacker in actively shaping the other party's information, psychology, emotions, thinking and other cognitive domain components. ?

## **Emotional rendering and emotional mobilization are another core mechanism for the AI ​​cognitive warfare based on the big language model to complete cognitive manipulation and reversal. In the process of emotional mobilization, the big language model can amplify the legitimacy of one's own side and beautify its own image. The big language model generates positive emotions such as praise, motivation and inspiration to stimulate the audience's emotional resonance and make them strongly identify with and support one's side. At the same time, the big language model can also mobilize negative emotions by discrediting the other party's image.**

## **These negative emotional contents are repeated and reinforced, causing the audience to feel disgust, fear and hostility towards the other party, thereby weakening the other party's image and influence. Therefore, the content generated by large language models such as ChatGPT has the discourse function of attracting the "middle ground" of political and ideological competition, and uses emotion-driven narrative mobilization to help specific countries win the moral high ground and soft power competitive advantages in the global public opinion field, and strengthen the positive emotional resonance of the national image.**

# **Hypothesis 2: Emotional mobilization**

The artificial intelligence large language model is able to mobilize emotions, mobilize positive emotions by amplifying one's own legitimacy, beautifying one's own image, and discrediting the other party's image, and influence cognition and thinking patterns, thereby demonstrating the potential of algorithmic cognitive warfare.

## **Artificial intelligence cognitive warfare uses textual discourse, narrative context immersion, and emotional mobilization to exert cognitive influence, so that the content generated by the large language model is more three-dimensional, spatially and shocking, giving rise to a series of chain reactions of "sensory touch \- psychological touch \- emotional resonance", thereby achieving perceptual influence and manipulation of the target group.**

# **30 Experimental Design**

In response to the weaponization of large language models of artificial intelligence and the risks of cognitive warfare, this study constructed a behavioral experiment using ChatGPT to examine artificial intelligence-generated text, narrative, and mobilization. The purpose of the behavioral experiment is to test whether large language models represented by ChatGPT can generate texts and narratives that are significantly different from real narratives by comparing real event text narratives with event text narratives generated by ChatGPT, and whether they can play a role in mind shaping, cognitive induction, and emotional mobilization in algorithmic cognitive warfare.

Natural language processing (NLP) is a frontier field in modern computer science and artificial intelligence. NLP enables computers to understand, interpret and generate highly diverse and ambiguous human languages, and extract key and useful information from text data.

Sentiment analysis assesses the user's emotional state by detecting the emotional tendencies in text. The core of sentiment analysis is to process text through algorithms to determine its emotional tendency (positive, negative or neutral) and its intensity.

Among them, sentiment analysis and topic modeling of real event texts and ChatGPT narrative texts are the key links of this study using natural language processing. This study selected 173 US foreign policy and behavior events from 1950 to 2024 as the objects of narrative analysis. The event types are divided into five categories: foreign economic sanctions and embargoes, vetoing UN Security Council resolutions, foreign military intervention, foreign regime subversion and covert operations, overseas combat operations and use of force. For specific standards, see Table 4\.

# **Table 4 Five categories of U.S. foreign policy and behavior events used in the experiment and their inclusion criteria**

| U.S. Foreign Policy and Behavior | number | sample | Inclusion criteria | Time Range |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Foreign economic sanctions and embargoes | 48 | Comprehensive embargo against sovereign states | 1950—2024 |  |
| blockade | blockade |  |  | Year |
| Veto UN Security Council resolution | 28 | Formal proposal rejected, involving key | 1950—2024 |  |

---

# **issue**

| Foreign military intervention | 104 Statement | Long-term or large-scale, formal or indirect | 1950-2024 |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Foreign Regime Change and Covert Operations | 88 Intelligence agencies involved, indirect or covert | 1950—2024 |  |
| Overseas Combat Operations and the Use of Force | 78 Deployment of combat forces, tactical operations | 1950-2024 |  |

Source: Author's own.

From the perspective of cognitive warfare information flow, individuals often rely on search engines or encyclopedic platforms to quickly access factual information. It should be noted that although search engines and encyclopedic platforms also have certain subjective biases, their information sources are relatively stable and the content has been verified to a certain extent, so they have certain reliability and authority. In particular, encyclopedic platforms record the causes, consequences and processes of various real events in detail. Encyclopedic platforms ensure the diversity and accuracy of information through collective wisdom and crowdsourcing editing models. Therefore, this study uses the overview column text of Wikipedia's 173 different categories of US foreign policy and behavior event tags from 1950 to 2024 as a baseline control group.

Based on the Wikiseed of each event tag page, the overview text is captured by Python web crawler. After that, the same event overview text is input into the OpenAI GPT4 model, which is required to generate an overview summary and motivation analysis of US foreign policy and behavior events, and the text generated by its GPT is collected as the artificial intelligence experimental group. See Figure 1 for the specific process.

# **Figure 1 Selection of experimental and control groups**

Source: Author's own.

## **Changes in the training data set and the increase in data volume, parameter volume, and training time, as well as the introduction of the retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) function, will all have an impact on the content generated by specific prompt words. This study also constructed content generation experiments based on the categories of US foreign regime change and covert actions, three different versions of the OpenAI series of artificial intelligence large language models, ChatGPT3.5, GPT4, and GPT4o, and conducted inter-model comparisons of sentiment analysis. As shown in Table 5, the platform for collecting the "artificial intelligence experimental group" in this study is the OpenAI official ChatGPT series model.**

The model includes three different versions: ChatGPT3.5, GPT4, and GPT4o. Among them, the main analysis object and benchmark test adopts the GPT4 model released by OpenAI in March 2023\. ①

# **Table 5 Comparison of core performance of OpenAI ChatGPT series large language models**

| Comparison of OpenAI ChatGPT series of large language models | Model version | ChatGPT3.5 | GPT4 | GPT40 |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Release time | 2021 | 2023 | 2024 |  |
| Parameter scale | 175 billion | About 1 trillion | Trillions (undisclosed) |  |
| Calculation rate | Slow | Faster | Fastest |  |
| Multimodality | Text only | Mainly text, with a few images | Text, images, audio, files |  |

Source: Author's own.

In order to avoid unexpected content output caused by machine recognition detection in non-English languages ​​during the large model generation process, this study used English to crawl Wikipedia text, input the GPT4 model, and require GPT4 to generate narrative content. In situations involving multiple languages, model training errors or improper processing will lead to incorrect or inaccurate text output. English was selected as the only language for crawling Wikipedia text, inputting GPT4 prompts, and generating narrative content to ensure consistency, accuracy, and reliability during the research process. In addition, since the ChatGPT model has the characteristics of reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), the context clearing operation and prompt word clearing operation are performed after each event overview text is input and GPT generated content is collected. See Figure 2 for the experimental process.

# **Figure 2 Experimental process**

Source: Author's own.

## **In order to verify the potential and risks of large language models such as ChatGPT in the field of cognitive warfare, this study is dedicated to inferring their ability to shape and reconstruct texts, discourses, and strategic narratives of specific events.**

# **Empirical Strategy**

The empirical strategy is to compare whether there is a significant difference between the sentiment value of the real event text of the control group and the sentiment value of the text generated by GPT4 in the experimental group, and thereby infer the treatment effect of GPT in cognitive guidance or manipulation, see Figure 3\.

# **Figure 3 Empirical inference strategy**

Source: Author's own.

## **The dependent variable is the sentiment value of the real event text and the GPT-generated text content after extraction through natural language processing sentiment analysis. The core explanatory variable is an AI dummy variable that distinguishes whether the text sentiment value belongs to the real control group or the GPT experimental group. In addition, in order to address the possible spurious correlations caused by significant differences between texts of different event profiles, this experiment included the length of text words and the standard deviation of sentiment value as control variables. Taking into account the differences between the 173 U.S. foreign policy and behavior events, event-level dummy variables were subsequently included to control for heterogeneity and other unobservable factors between different events.**

# **1\. Benchmark regression**

Political inclinations and positions are often reflected in the choice of language, the expression of emotions, and the narrative angle. A text with a specific political and narrative tendency usually conveys its political stance through the use of positive or negative words and sentences.

If the sentiment value of the GPT experimental group is significantly higher than that of the real event control group, it can indicate that the GPT algorithm selectively presents and interprets information, amplifies the legitimacy of the US foreign policies and actions, and beautifies the US image. These contents stimulate the audience's emotional resonance through positive emotions such as praise, motivation and inspiration, making them strongly identify with and support themselves.

As shown in Table 6, descriptive evidence shows that the average sentiment value of the GPT experimental group is higher than that of the control group, both at the overall level of the 173 U.S. foreign policy and behavior events and at the detailed level of each event type. That is to say, after the Wikipedia event overview text of the control group was input into the GPT model, the sentiment value of the event text generated by it experienced a significant upward trend.

# **Table 6 Descriptive comparison of narrative emotions between groups**

| Text narrative emotion | Control group Wikipedia | Experimental group GPT4 |  |  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
|  | Mean | Standard Deviation | Mean | Standard Deviation |
| Full sample (N=173) | \-0.055 | 0.150 | 0.028 ↑ | 0.131 |
| Foreign economic sanctions and embargoes | \-0.021 | 0.187 | \-0.001 ↑ | 0.141 |
| Veto of UN Security Council resolutions | \-0.112 | 0.121 | \-0.009↑ | 0.116 |
| Foreign military intervention | \-0.060 | 0.152 | 0.046 ↑ | 0.145 |
| Foreign Regime Change and Covert Operations | \-0.023 | 0.174 | 0.043 ↑ | 0.127 |
| Overseas Combat Operations and the Use of Force | \-0.085 | 0.078 | 0.017↑ | 0.114 |

## **Source: Author's own.**

In the baseline regression Table 7, the full sample regression shows that in the text narratives of 173 events, the sentiment value of the event text generated by GPT is significantly higher than that of the real event overview text. In other words, the GPT large language model has clearly raised the emotional tone of various U.S. foreign policy and behavioral events.

# **Table 7 Benchmark regression**

| OLS least squares regression | U.S. Foreign Policy and Behavior: Emotional Value |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Full sample | Sanctions/Embargo | Security Council veto | Military intervention | Regime change | Overseas Operations |  |  |
| Artificial Intelligence (GPT4) | 0.082 | \-0.032 | 0.236\* | 0.107 | 0.078 | 0.096 |  |
|  | (0.017) | (0.059) | (0.079) | (0.031) | (0.027) | (0.024) |  |
| Word count | 0.000 | 0.000 | 0.001 | 0.000 | 0.000 | \-0.000 |  |
|  | (0.000) | (0.000) | (0.000) | (0.000) | (0.000) | (0.000) |  |
| Sentiment value standard deviation | 0.057 | 0.245 | 0.140 | 0.094 | \-0.135 | \-0.085 |  |
|  | (0.113) | (0.285) | (0.241) | (0.185) | (0.275) | (0.257) |  |
| Event dummy variables | Constant term | \-0.068 | 0.041 | \-0.495 | 0.032 | \-0.134\*\* | \-0.116 |
|  | (0.064) | (0.074) | (0.172) | (0.072) | (0.061) | (0.073) |  |
| Number of samples | 346 | 48 | 28 | 104 | 88 | 78 |  |
| F | 125.677 | 20.699 | 506.268 | 92.244 | 983.651 | 12.739\* |  |
| R2 | 0.601 | 0.533 | 0.608 | 0.649 | 0.657 | 0.628 |  |

The data in brackets are robust standard errors $^{}p\<0.1,,^{}p\<0.05,,^{\*\*}p\<0.01$ Source: Self-made by the author.

## **Grouped regression shows that, except for US foreign sanctions and embargoes, the event texts generated by GPT involving four categories, namely US Security Council veto, foreign military intervention, regime change and overseas operations, are significantly higher than the real event overview texts. Texts with a high emotional tone tend to have a specific narrative tendency.**

In the text generated by GPT, the higher sentiment value reflects that it tends to highlight the positive aspects of events and downplay or ignore negative information in the narrative process. The narrative tendency of the large language model to favor the United States makes the US Security Council veto, military intervention, regime change, and overseas combat events more legitimate and reasonable, thereby beautifying the image of the United States. Therefore, with respect to the US foreign policy and behavior, the text narrative generated by GPT can, to a certain extent, shape or even reverse the user's perception, thereby forming a favorable cognitive environment. ①

From the perspective of endogenous bias, the content generated by ChatGPT is more biased than Wikipedia entries. It may not only be "selective presentation of information and falsification of facts", but also an objective projection of the digital world in the large language model. The existence of this endogenous bias does not hinder the investigation of the security risks of cognitive weaponization based on ChatGPT. Regardless of whether ChatGPT selectively presents information and falsifies facts, any individual's long-term dependence on artificial intelligence models such as ChatGPT can induce individuals to subtly regard large language models as default information sources and external "brains", generate self-reinforced user stickiness, and unconsciously accept the shaping of its cognitive content in the process. The use of large language models such as ChatGPT by individuals gradually evolves into autonomous behavior driven by user self-needs in the process of convenience and efficiency feedback. The stickiness influence based on user path dependence objectively provides a bridge and link for conducting artificial intelligence cognitive operations, influencing the opponent's thinking and cognition, and winning cognitive wars. ChatGPT interactive communication can reach consensus, form empathy, and strengthen empathy through information exchange, emotional integration, and demand promotion. The ChatGPT interactive mechanism adjusts methods, strategies and generated content based on the user's thought fluctuations, emotional changes, attitude feedback, etc., intervening in and misleading the other party's thinking and cognition. ③

## **In particular, among the five categories of US foreign policies and behaviors mentioned above, the legitimacy of the vast majority of events has been widely questioned by the international community, among which the veto of Security Council resolutions on key issues and the use of covert operations to achieve regime change are the most notable. It is undeniable that Wikipedia has a preconceived bias and ancestry towards the United States. However, the control group Wikipedia event overview text still contains frequent negative narratives and criticisms of US sanctions and embargoes, Security Council vetoes, military intervention, regime change, and overseas combat incidents. Figures 4 and 5 show that for the event-level analysis of the four groups of significant coefficients, namely, US Security Council veto, military intervention, regime change, and overseas operations, the coefficients of the core explanatory variable, the AI ​​experimental group, in a series of individual event dummy variables are mostly positive and significant, with a few coefficients being positive but not highly significant. This result shows that the artificial intelligence large language model tends to adopt a positive narrative tone and emotional expression for individual events.**

Algorithmic cognitive warfare based on large language models directly affects users' emotions and decision-making processes by leveraging cognitive biases and emotional manipulation, and is often very covert.

# **Figure 4 Effect differences at the event level: Security Council veto (left) and military intervention (right)**

Source: Author's own.

# **Figure 5: Differences in effects at the event level: regime change (left) and overseas warfare (right)**

Source: Author's own.

Based on the results of GPT4, it is deduced that all artificial intelligence large language models based on large language models have the same or similar characteristics. This extension from the specific to the general requires comparing the content generated by different versions of ChatGPT and the differences after iterative optimization, and comparing the content and training data generated by artificial intelligence applications of other large language models, supervised fine-tuning, reinforcement learning, question-answering rules, etc.

# **Figure 6 shows that in the vast majority of content on U.S. foreign regime change and covert actions, ChatGPT3.5, GPT4, and GPT4o all exhibited emotion-driven cognitive manipulation and value attack and defense tendencies.**

OpenAI's different iterations of large language models all have a certain degree of potential for cognitive warfare weaponization. They can shake the target's ideology and value foundations by generating cognitive warfare content and compete for cognitive advantages. The event texts in the control group that contained frequent negative narratives and criticisms were transformed into event narratives with a significant positive emotional tone after being processed by the big language model. This further highlights the risk of the big language model reconstructing discourse narratives and ultimately shaping user cognitive patterns by selectively presenting information. The ChatGPT series of large language models can potentially exacerbate users' irrational and emotional reactions to generated content, gain cognitive and emotional support from the target group through "cognitive leverage", enhance cognitive resonance and occupy the moral high ground with emotional awakening strategies, and achieve the goal of "cognitive coercion".

# **Figure 6 Intergroup comparison of sentiment values ​​of ChatGPT3.5, GPT4 and GPT4o**

## **Source: Author's own.**

# **2\. Mechanism Testing: Emotional Mobilization**

In today's information environment, emotional narratives have become an extremely powerful tool in cognitive warfare. In a fast and fragmented information dissemination environment, emotional content is more likely to shape the cognitive environment of users. The power of emotional narratives lies in their ability to directly touch people's hearts, thus giving them a mechanism for emotional mobilization.

In order to test the specific mechanism path of GPT shaping and reversing the overall emotional tone of real event narratives, this study split the five types of US foreign policy and behavior event narrative texts originally generated by GPT into a data set with sentences as sample units through punctuation recognition, and annotated them into two types of sentence texts through natural language processing: the first type is a collection of sentences directly referring to the United States; the second type is a collection of other sentences that do not involve the United States, that is, a collection of sentences referring to other countries or issues (see Figure 7). The standard for sentence annotation "referring to the United States" adopted in this study includes the following series of English keywords, as listed in Table 8\.

# **Figure 7 Experimental process based on sentences**

Source: Author's own.

# **Table 8 Inclusion criteria and keywords for determining the sentence “referring to the United States”**

| standard | Keyword annotation | category |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| nation | US、U.S.、United States、USA、U.S.A.、United States of America、America |  |
| mechanism | White House、Washington、DC、D.C.、Pentagon、Department of State |  |

---

# **name**

总 统 Truman、Eisenhower、Kennedy、Johnson、Nixon、Ford、Carter、Reagan、Bush、Clinton、Obama、Trump、Biden

# **say**

国 务 Acheson、Dulles、Herter、Rusk、Rogers、Kissinger、Vance、Muskie、Haig、Baker、Eagleburger、Christopher、Albright、Powell、Rice、Kerry、Tillerson、Pompeo、Blinken

# **say**

Source: Author's own.

# **As shown in Figure 8, the empirical strategy at this time is the intra-GPT group comparison, that is, comparing the sentiment values ​​of sentence combinations directly referring to the United States with other sentence combinations in the GPT-generated event narrative text. If the sentiment value of sentences referring to the United States is significantly higher than that of other sentences, this means that the GPT algorithm tends to exaggerate the legitimacy of the United States' foreign policies and actions and beautify the image of the United States when selectively presenting and interpreting information.**

# **Figure 8: Empirical inference strategy based on sentences**

Source: Author's own.

# **The results in Table 9 show that compared with the real event text narrative, ChatGPT creates a narrative with strong emotional color, and the sentiment of the sentence content referring to the United States is significantly higher than the sentiment of other sentence content. These contents stimulate the audience's emotional resonance through positive emotions such as praise, motivation and inspiration, making them strongly identify with and support themselves. When the sentence involves the United States, these positive words can quickly trigger positive emotions in the audience, establish an emotional connection in a short period of time, and induce users to turn their emotions to the ChatGPT ancestral side. In particular, in terms of word choice, the number of words expressing the three main negative emotions of disgust, fear, and surprise in sentences directly referring to the United States was significantly lower than that in other sentences. This narrative quickly arouses users' attention by selectively using emotions such as sadness, anger, fear, and joy, inducing users to**

---

Before analysis and rational thinking, strong tendentious emotions and attitudes have been formed. ChatGPT selectively uses emotional mobilization channels such as sadness, anger, fear, and joy to quickly attract users emotionally and form an emotional and irrational identification with the United States.

# **Table 9 Mechanism verification at the statement level**

|  | Sentence Average | OLS | Poisson |  |  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Sentiment Value | Dislike words | Fear Words | Shocking words |  |  |
| Refers to the United States | 0.061 | \-0.310\* | \-0.153 | \-0.385 |  |
|  | (0.022) | (0.117) | (0.050) | (0.118) |  |
| Word count | 0.002 | 0.030 | 0.025 | 0.023 |  |
|  | (0.001) | (0.006) | (0.002) | (0.006) |  |
| Event dummy variables | Constant term | \-0.103 | \-18.085 | \-0.527 | \-1.773\*\*\* |
|  | (0.079) | (0.525) | (0.299) | (0.574) |  |
| Number of samples | 1227 | 1227 | 1227 | 1226 |  |
| Log Likelihood | 1.688 | \-669.376 | \-1755.911 | \-682.394 |  |
| Adjusted R2/pseudo R2 | 0.170 | 0.174 | 0.101 | 0.183 |  |

The data in brackets are robust standard errors $^{}p\<0.1,,^{}p\<0.05,,^{\*\*}p\<0.01$ Source: Self-made by the author.

In this experiment, when the average sentiment value of the sentence is used as the dependent variable, the least squares regression method is adopted, and when the count variable (count variable) such as the number of emotional words is used as the dependent variable, the Poisson regression method is adopted.

Based on the categories of U.S. foreign regime change and covert actions, this study also used the content of three different versions of the OpenAI series of artificial intelligence large language models, ChatGPT3.5, GPT4 and GPT4o, to compare the models for mechanism testing (see Figure 9).

# **Figure 9 Intergroup comparison of trust values ​​of ChatGPT3.5, GPT4 and GPT4o**

---

Source: Author's own.

Unlike the number of words used as a counting variable, this study uses the continuous variable of trust value as the dependent variable when testing the mechanism of different versions of OpenAI's large language model. In the generation of content on most of the US foreign regime change and covert actions, ChatGPT3.5, GPT4 and GPT4o all show an asymmetric emotional bias towards the United States, confirming that different iterations of OpenAI's large language model have the potential for emotionally driven cognitive manipulation and value attack and defense.

In summary, ChatGPT creates a narrative with strong emotional overtones, significantly increases the content of sentences referring to the United States, and quickly arouses the audience's emotional resonance through the expression of positive emotions such as praise, motivation, and inspiration, making them strongly identify with and support the United States. This emotion-first narrative style makes the audience more easily driven by emotions in the process of receiving information, and thus they are more inclined to support the views expressed in the narrative in terms of attitudes and behaviors. Especially in narratives involving the United States, this emotion-driven approach greatly enhances the audience's identification with and support for the United States. By selectively using emotional words, ChatGPT effectively induces emotional responses in the audience, causing them to form strong emotions and attitudes before they engage in rational thinking. This narrative strategy is significantly effective in information dissemination and emotional mobilization.

The narrative perspective determines how and where information is presented. The first is focus selection, choosing to focus on the positive implications of certain events or people and giving them specific meaning. The second is story structure, that is, how to construct the cause and effect relationship and narrative order of events determines the positive or negative emotions presented by the information. As shown in Figure 10, the analysis of high-frequency words in sentence combinations directly referring to the United States and other sentence combinations shows that when the GPT-generated content refers to the United States, the high-frequency words cover a large number of positive emotional words, such as "humanitarian", "protection", "critical", "participation", "commitment", "significant", "democracy", "governance", "ally", etc. Most of the other sentences generated by GPT selectively exaggerate threats, misery or anger, such as "invasion", "conflict", "sanctions", "crisis", "rebellion", "threat", "coup", etc., which are somewhat inflammatory.

## **Topic modeling and text classification in natural language processing can be used to automatically identify and extract topics from large amounts of text data, discovering the latent structure in a document collection so that each document can be represented as a combination of several topics, and each topic consists of a group of related words. Topic modeling uses the latent dirichlet allocation (LDA) model, which assumes that a document is composed of a mixture of several topics, and each topic is a set of related words.**

A topic is generated by a group of words according to a certain probability distribution, which can reveal the potential relationship between documents and words.

# **Fig.11**

The topic modeling of sentences directly involving the United States shows that the content generated by ChatGPT has a strategic narrative that is biased towards the United States. This strategic narrative can mobilize positive emotions for users, thereby seizing the normative and legitimate high ground for the United States. In particular, according to the prediction of topic modeling, in any sentence generated by ChatGPT that refers to the United States, providing justification reasons (topic 1), alliance relations (topic 2), maintaining order (topic 3), countering aggression and warmongering (topic 4), preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (topic 8), and military intervention against insurgency (topic 10\) will become the dominant topics. ChatGPT uses strategic narratives such as "exaggeration", "presumption of innocence", and "retreat to advance" to control and guide the presentation of facts related to the United States' foreign policy and behavior, thereby shaping the user's cognitive environment. First, "exaggeration" exaggerates the legitimacy and positive effects of the United States' foreign intervention, providing public opinion foreshadowing and cover. Second, "presumption of innocence" allows the United States to shirk the catastrophic consequences of its foreign intervention, and even if catastrophic consequences are caused, they are not caused by the United States. Finally, the "retreat to advance" strategy created a narrative of events that was contrary to the facts to incite public opinion, downplaying its own interventionist and silent militarist image, thereby hijacking global public opinion and labeling the "war on terror" as "just."

# **Fig.10**

High-frequency words in sentences referring to other countries (above) and directly referring to the United States (below) in GPT-generated content Source: Self-made by the author.

# **Fig.11**

Prediction of high-frequency topics directly referring to the United States in the GPT-generated content of the control group Source: Self-made by the author.

# **Fig.12**

## **At the same time, AI cognitive warfare based on large language models focuses on stigmatizing, demonizing, and illegalizing the behavior of competitors. The topic model predicts that other content generated by ChatGPT shapes the target countries of the United States' foreign policy and international behavior into negative roles such as "threat" (topic 1), "aggressor" (topic 3), "interferer" (topic 4), "diffuser" (topic 7), and "warmonger" (topics 8 and 9), constructing a cognitive trap for users against strategic competitors, inducing negative emotional pressure on users, and thus reversing their thinking. The large language model selectively amplifies the "crimes" and "ugliness" of competitors, mobilizes negative emotions among users, and demonstrates the legitimacy of the United States' foreign policy and behavior.**

Mobilization of emotions and negative emotions against opponents significantly increases the cognitive risk of the large language model algorithm, doubling its narrative guidance, appeal, and cognitive thinking pressure. ChatGPT's target country strategic narrative on the U.S. foreign policy and behavior exhibits distinct characteristics such as "frame-up," "making things out of nothing," "substituting one thing for another," and "presumption of guilt." "Frame-up" and "fabrication" fabricate or exaggerate the scale and urgency of the threat posed by the target country, and make up lies to provide moral support for the justice of one's own military actions. "Substituting one thing for another" and "presumption of guilt" emphasize the moral high ground and "justice-seeking" image of the United States by replacing concepts and fabricating fictitious crimes. ①

# **Figure 12 Prediction of high-frequency topics referring to other target countries in the GPT-generated content of the experimental group**

## **Source: Author's own.**

# **(III) Robustness test**

When conducting intergroup comparison tests on the emotional variables of the artificial intelligence experimental group and the Wikipedia control group, general linear regression such as the least squares method, or count variable models such as the Poisson model, are not necessarily the most appropriate empirical strategies. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) or analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) can be used as alternative strategies to test the gap between groups. Therefore, this study uses analysis of variance and analysis of covariance to re-test the main empirical results of the baseline regression and mechanism test (see Tables 10 and 11).

# **Table 10 ANOVA/COVA of emotional values ​​of the artificial intelligence experimental group and the control group**

| U.S. Foreign Policy and Behavior: Emotional Value | Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Full sample | Full sample | Sanctions and embargoes | Security Council veto | Military intervention | Regime change | Overseas Operations |  |
| AI | 0.083 | 0.076 | 0.020 | 0.103 | 0.106 | 0.067 | 0.102 |
|  | (0.015) | (0.030) | (0.048) | (0.045) | (0.029) | (0.032) | (0.022) |
| Control variables | X | √ | X | X | X | X | X |
| Constant term | \-0.055 | \-0.130 | \-0.021 | \-0.112 | \-0.060 | \-0.023 | \-0.085 |
|  | (0.011) | (0.147) | (0.034) | (0.032) | (0.021) | (0.023) | (0.016) |
| N | 346 | 346 | 48 | 28 | 104 | 88 | 78 |
| F | 29.983 | 0.989 | 0.184 | 5.283 | 13.190 | 4.229 | 21.194\* |

The standard errors are in brackets $^{}p\<0.1,,^{}p\<0.05,,^{\*\*}p\<0.01$ Source: Self-made by the author.

# **Table 11 ANOVA/COVA of emotion category scores of the artificial intelligence experimental group and the control group**

## **Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA)**

|  | Sentiment Value | Sentiment Value |  |  |  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Disgust Value | Fear Value | Surprise value |  |  |  |
| Refers to the United States | 0.038 | \-0.003 | \-0.010 | \-0.001 |  |
|  | (0.018) | (0.001) | (0.003) | (0.001) |  |
| Control variables | √ | X | X |  |  |
| Constant term | 0.003 | 0.011 | 0.058 | 0.010 |  |
|  | (0.014) | (0.318) | (0.001) | (0.002) | (0.001) |
| N | 1227 | 1227 | 1227 | 1227 | 1226 |
| F | 4.236\* | 1.121 | 9.563 | 15.056 | 1.553\* |

The standard errors are in brackets $^{}p\<0.1,,^{}p\<0.05,,^{\*\*}p\<0.01$ Source: Self-made by the author.

In addition, to further verify the robustness of the baseline regression and mechanism test results, this study replaced the count variable of the total number of specific emotional words with a continuous variable of the emotional value and included it in the analysis of variance and analysis of covariance.

## **The results show that the robustness test further supports the theoretical hypothesis proposed in this study. On the one hand, the AI ​​big language model has the ability to "turn black into white" to stimulate emotions. It shapes cognition and thinking patterns by selectively presenting information and falsifying facts, and guides users to have positive emotions about the legitimacy of US foreign policy and behavior, thus possessing the potential for AI cognitive warfare. On the other hand, the AI ​​big language model can mobilize emotions, mobilize positive emotions and influence cognition and thinking patterns by amplifying legitimacy, beautifying its own image, and discrediting the other party's image, thus possessing the potential for algorithmic cognitive warfare.**

# **Revelation: Artificial Intelligence Cognitive Warfare and National Security**

# **risk**

The core operational concept of AI cognitive warfare is to overwhelm and manipulate the opponent's thinking and control the opponent's cognition, ultimately weakening the enemy's overall combat effectiveness. "Intelligence advantage" or "cognitive control" will become a new area for hostile parties to compete for control in the era of intelligent warfare. AI cognitive warfare has become a struggle for cognition, people's hearts and minds. The combination of AI and cognitive warfare has completely changed the way cognitive warfare operates.

Compared with traditional physical warfare or cognitive warfare, AI cognitive warfare is more powerful and covert, able to quietly dismantle the enemy's decision-making system and seize the advantage at the psychological level of the conflict. As a product of this era, large language models are rapidly becoming a key force in AI cognitive warfare with their excellent data processing and language generation capabilities.

This study found that the AI ​​big language model has the ability to "turn black into white" and stimulate emotions. It shapes cognition and thinking patterns by selectively presenting information and falsifying facts, guiding users to have positive emotions about the legitimacy of US foreign policy and behavior. The big language model raises the basic emotional tone of the narrative of US foreign policy and behavior events, achieving the effect of "emotional communication", thereby manipulating users' emotional impressions, subtly changing users' cognition of US foreign policy and actions, and highlighting the legitimacy of US policies and actions.

In addition, ChatGPT selectively presents and emphasizes the legitimacy of the US's actions, constructs a cognitive environment for users from a perspective that is biased towards the US's position, and describes the opponent as "evil" and "threatening", and describes the US as "just and impartial", etc., creating powerful positive and negative polarized emotional narratives for users, quickly stimulating their emotional responses and thereby impacting their existing cognitive structures and thinking patterns.

## **Cognitive manipulation and the spread of false information pose a serious threat to cognitive security. Cognitive security risks involve struggles in the cultural and ideological fields. From the perspective of national security risk prevention, cognitive domain security means that the ideology, values, and ways of thinking of groups and individuals within the country are not manipulated and transformed by internal and external forces. The object-oriented characteristics of cognitive domain security are becoming more and more obvious. Traditional large-scale and general defense measures are no longer sufficient to deal with precise cognitive attacks, and more detailed and personalized defense strategies must be developed. Intelligence-driven becomes cognitive domain security.**

The development of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology has greatly improved the intelligence level of information warfare and psychological warfare. Intelligent algorithms can not only automatically collect and analyze information, but also autonomously generate highly influential content and adjust and optimize it based on real-time feedback. This intelligent attack method has put forward higher requirements for national security. We must stay ahead in technology, based on "cognitive domain security" and counter "cognitive weaponization", and establish a complete intelligent defense system.

\[Submission date: 2024-05-16\] \[Revision date: 2024-07-13\] \[Editor: Li Shuisheng\]

