Title: Despite the Cultural Revolution, Confucius Still Walks the Chinese Corridors of Power — Vanguard Think Tank

URL Source:
[https://vanguardthinktank.org/despite-the-cultural-revolution-confucius-still-walks-the-chinese-corridors-of-power](https://vanguardthinktank.org/despite-the-cultural-revolution-confucius-still-walks-the-chinese-corridors-of-power)

Markdown Content:
**Abstract**

Mao Zedong’s China was built on uprooting the country’s traditional feudal system, including traditional schools of
thought such as Confucianism that had justified it. Nevertheless, after Mao’s death, China’s leaders gradually
integrated Confucian ideas into their governance and increasingly emphasized the value of traditional culture,
culminating in Xi Jinping’s explicit integration of Marxism with Chinese tradition with Confucius at its heart. This
article explores the nature and motivations of such activities throughout time and argues that using Chinese tradition
has helped the Chinese party-state legitimize its rule during periods of drastic socioeconomic changes and challenges.

**Introduction**

In November 2023, a new Chinese TV series titled “When Marx Met Confucius” (当马克思遇见孔夫子) produced by the propaganda
department of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) in Hunan province made headlines both in China and abroad. The series
consists of dialogues between the two historical figures who answer questions from an audience of students, the
responses to which are analyzed, elaborated on, and connected to Xi Jinping Thought by scholars and party officials.
Occasionally, Marx and Confucius converse with other notable figures such as Mao Zedong or Vladimir Lenin (*Xi Jinping
Is Trying to Fuse the Ideologies of Marx and Confucius*, 2023). Despite the rather odd premise, “When Marx Met
Confucius” is an extremely lucid and straightforward testament to President Xi Jinping’s understanding of the
ideological direction China should take. Xi’s government has long been eager to demonstrate the overlap between
Confucianism and China’s official ideologies, such as Marxism-Leninism and Socialism with Chinese Characteristics. In
this article, I will present a concise historical and contemporary analysis of the ideological role of Confucianism in
the People’s Republic. I will show that despite the Party’s revolutionary past and its restraint in excessively
embracing Confucianism, the Party has used it along with traditional Chinese culture in general as a conservative
counterpart to Marxism as part of regime legitimation, specifically in order to make sense of the profound socioeconomic
changes China has experienced in the last decades.

**From Mao to Hu—Confucianism’s rocky path in the People’s Republic**

“When Marx Met Confucius”—a direct endorsement of Confucius and his philosophy by the CCP—may understandably raise the
eyebrows of those who are familiar with the earlier history of the People’s Republic. Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution
attacked Confucianism and its traditions as remnants of ‘feudal poison’ and aimed to destroy any influences on society
(Ng, 2023, p. 2). During campaigns such as Criticize Lin, Criticize Confucius, and the campaign to destroy the Four
Olds, Confucius’ works were burned, and Maoists claimed that the philosopher was a reactionary who had resisted
historical progress, supported slavery, and denigrated the role of women (Sullivan, 2011, pp. 15–16, 106–107).

Due to their ideological inclinations, it is true that Chinese communists during the Maoist period tended to be
anti-Confucian. Nevertheless, it must also be noted that prior to the Cultural Revolution, the communists’ attitude
towards Confucius was sometimes ambivalent. Aside from their criticisms, they also referred to “some progressive ideas”
within Confucianism and convened Confucius Study Conferences until as late as 1961–1962. The Cultural Revolution’s
criticism of Confucius contradicted some of the earlier teachings of Mao himself, such as his acknowledgment of the
communists’ need to “sum up our history from Confucius to Sun Yet-sen and take over this valuable legacy.” Still, in
1964, Mao criticized the Party’s dismissal of mainstream Confucianism, arguing that Confucius “understood something of
the suffering of the masses” (Gregor & Chang, 1979, p. 1077).

Of course, these views should not be overemphasized as well before the Cultural Revolution, Mao called for the overthrow
of “semi-feudal culture” (represented by people such as those who “advocate \[the\] worship of Confucius \[and\] the
study of the Confucian canon”) (Mao, 1940). In 1953, he argued that Confucius “came close to being a despot and reeked
of fascism” (Mao, 1953). All things considered, Mao’s occasional advocacy of inheriting the Confucian tradition, as well
as his steep criticisms and later violent campaign against it, both show the continued influence of Confucianism in
Maoist China (Gong, 1989, p. 364).

In March 1979, editorials in the CCP’s official newspaper, *Renmin Ribao* (*People’s Daily*), portrayed the Cultural
Revolution as having been unnecessary and damaging to the Party’s unity (Gregor & Chang, 1979, pp. 1091–1092). Not long
after, at the dawn of the 1980s, scholarly conferences on Confucianism began to be organized as the official taboo
surrounding Confucius broke down. In 1984, the China Confucius Foundation was established, and in 1989, its honorary
chairman and one of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping’s closest aides, Gu Mu, called for the inheriting and reform of
China’s traditional culture with “the Confucian school of thought as its main stream” (de Bary, 1995, p. 181).

Following Mao’s death, Confucianism experienced a rebirth in China for several reasons. First, it served to respond to
the social, political, and cultural crises of the Cultural Revolution as well as the religious vacuum created during
that period (Deng & Smith, 2018, p. 296). Second, Confucianism’s emphasis on social harmony was useful for the regime in
downplaying the importance of the extreme class struggles that had taken place during the Cultural Revolution and that
were undesirable during a period of economic reform (Kallio, 2011, pp. 54–55). Third, the evaluation of the apparent
merits of Confucianism became popular in China and elsewhere in the late 20th century after a “Confucian capitalism
theory” was used to explain the “miraculous” economic growth of South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore (forming a part of
the wider “Asian values” discourse) (Deng & Smith, 2018, p. 296).

Finally, in the early 1990s, after the collapse of communism in Europe and during its own transition to a market-based
economy, China had to look for new sources of regime legitimacy. Writing in 1995, de Bary argued the following: “In this
unfavorable climate, with much of the erstwhile Communist world (including the homelands of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and
Stalin) having repudiated the original doctrine and practice of the Party, Beijing's pragmatic leaders are increasingly
disposed to lean on a conservative version of Chinese tradition as the best guarantor of the status quo” (de Bary, 1995,
p. 183). Nevertheless, mainstream scholars around that time still emphasized Mao’s claim from 1940 that CCP members must
“discard the feudalistic dross and keep the democratic essence” of ancient Chinese culture” (Kallio, 2011, pp. 54–55).

In 1991, China’s next leader Jiang Zemin thus launched the patriotic education campaign, which emphasized China’s
historical victimhood at the hands of the West, but also granted renewed importance to Chinese “traditional learning.”
With regard to China’s traditional culture, Jiang spoke in the same year that “…we should select the essence and discard
the dross therefrom, and carry forward and develop them in line with the spirit of the times in order to make the past
serve the present.” This statement again reminds us of Mao’s view on the “feudalistic dross” and the “democratic
essence,” both apparently present in Chinese traditional culture (Kallio, 2011, pp. 54–56).

In the 21st century, the CCP has sought to more clearly define the ideas that socialist China should inherit from the
country’s traditional culture. An important example of this is former president Hu Jintao’s advocacy for a “harmonious
society.” Despite China’s rapid economic growth in the 2000s, its side effects, such as growing inequality, prompted the
CCP to acknowledge that “social equity and justice is a basic condition of social harmony.” Even though Party documents
concerning the “harmonious society” refrained from invoking Confucius, Hu made no secret of the fact that harmony is
central to Confucianism by quoting the philosopher in his speeches on the topic (Kallio, 2011, pp. 61–62). For Hu,
“socialist harmony” meant the promotion of honesty, unity, and a closer relationship between the people and the
government—echoing Confucian themes (Bell, 2010, p. 23). In addition, Hu’s government made traditional festivals with
Confucian influences (such as the Tomb Sweeping Day and the Dragon Boat Festival) into national holidays (Kallio, 2011,
p. 60).

Despite their very real overlaps, one may argue that the CCP has used concepts such as Confucianism, traditional
studies, Asian values, and socialist harmony perhaps too interchangeably. However, Kallio argues that the Party has
blurred the differences between these concepts on purpose. This is done both to serve the interests of the Party, in
order not to overemphasize Confucianism, and of the people who perceive traditional culture as living and ever-changing
and who do not find it necessary to differentiate between Confucius’ thought and other elements of traditional Chinese
culture. One must also consider the view of Republican-era intellectual Liang Qichao, who argued that “Confucian
philosophy does not equate with the whole of Chinese culture, but if you take Confucianism away, I am afraid not much
else will remain” (Kallio, 2011, pp. 60–65).

**Xi Jinping and the “Second Integration”**

Already during his first few years in power, Chinese President Xi Jinping repeatedly quoted Confucius in his addresses
and visited the grave of the sage in Qufu, Shandong Province (Schuman, 2014). In a 2014 speech, Xi argued that
Confucianism was key to “understanding the national characteristics of the Chinese as well as the historical roots of
the spiritual world of the present-day Chinese” (Gardels, 2014). In the last few years, Xi has developed the concept of
the “second integration,” which explicitly advocates for combining the “basic tenets of Marxism with fine traditional
Chinese culture” (Y. Zhang, 2023). According to the CCP’s official journal on socialist theory, the “second integration”
must be set on an equal footing with Mao’s “first integration”—the adaptation of Marxism to China’s “concrete
realities,” which, the Party claims, helped it to seize state power such as by encircling cities from the countryside
(*The “Two Integrations”: The Only Path and Strongest Assurance for Our Success,* 2023).

However, that journal article would also have us believe that the “second integration” is not Xi’s invention. It argues
that it was already Mao who “fully tapped the contemporary value of China’s traditional culture” and “demonstrated a
practical mastery” of the best of that culture in order to apply Marxism “from a national perspective” (*The “Two
Integrations”: The Only Path and Strongest Assurance for Our Success, 2023*). Even though the CCP under President Xi has
officially referred to the Cultural Revolution as “catastrophic” (State Council of the People’s Republic of China,
2021), it does not seem to want to admit Mao’s bitter criticisms of Chinese traditional thought and instead attempts to
show strong historical continuity in the Party’s embrace of it. On the other hand, while the article also highlights
Deng Xiaoping’s views on the importance of China’s traditional culture, Jiang Zemin’s and Hu Jintao’s efforts in this
area are not mentioned. The article explains that Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New
Era (one of the country’s official ideologies as outlined in the constitution) is based on the “two integrations,” since
it draws from both Marxist and traditional Chinese principles in areas such as “people-centered” governance and the
relationship between man and nature (*The “Two Integrations”: The Only Path and Strongest Assurance for Our Success,*
2023).

Xi Jinping’s presidency has also employed Confucianism and Chinese traditional thought in more implicit ways. It has
overseen the strong promotion of the so-called “core socialist values” in China, a system that has its roots in the
2000s but was officially consolidated in 2012\. These twelve values are claimed to be “the soul of the Chinese nation
which will serve as the guide for building socialism with Chinese characteristics” and include prosperity, democracy,
civility, and harmony on the “national level”; freedom, equality, justice, and rule of law on the “society level”; and
patriotism, dedication, integrity, and friendliness on the “personal level” (Miao, 2020, p. 167). Despite being called
so, none of these values can immediately be identified as specifically “socialist,” as numerous non-socialist nations,
societies, and individuals could arguably associate with them (Breslin, 2024). President Xi himself has instead strongly
associated these values with traditional Chinese culture, highlighting their links to “traditional Chinese virtues” and
“what our ancestors have left us” (Xi, 2014). The wider CCP propaganda has also connected these values with Chinese
tradition, such as by directly associating “friendliness” with the Confucian concept of benevolence (*ren* 仁), thus
tracing the philosophical roots of such terms back to the ancient classics (Miao, 2020, p. 178).

Xi Jinping’s motivations to embrace Confucianism and traditional Chinese culture in general (arguably more so than any
other leader in the history of the CCP) are probably not very different from those of Deng, Jiang, or Hu. Even though
the Cultural Revolution and the collapse of the Soviet Union are now more or less distant chapters in history, the fact
remains that Chinese society has gone through immense changes since the founding of the People’s Republic in 1949\.
These changes, such as the adoption of a market-based economy and the emergence of economic classes and the inequalities
between them, cannot be explained by ideologically pure Marxism-Leninism.

Moreover, even though the CCP has heavily relied on performance legitimacy in recent decades, this way of compensating
for the contradictions between societal practice and the declared values poses great risks. The economy is hard to
predict on its own and is rendered even more unpredictable due to sudden changes in international relations, of which
there have been more than a few in the last few years. The Party, thus, has needed to find new alternatives as the basis
for regime legitimation as economic growth inevitably slows (Ng, 2023, p. 144). “Socialism with Chinese characteristics”
is an ideology vague enough for it to be able to adapt to new challenges in contemporary China, such as a slowing
economy and soaring youth unemployment (T. Zhang, 2023). In an era without revolutionary and charismatic leadership, the
ideology can then fit within itself a necessary grander narrative of a “moral claim to Chinese culture, civilization,
and traditions” (Miao, 2020, p. 164).

**Conclusion**

In “When Marx Met Confucius,” Mao Zedong’s spirit tells the two thinkers and the audience that he was a “defender of
traditional Chinese culture” (*Xi Jinping Is Trying to Fuse the Ideologies of Marx and Confucius*, 2023). Despite the
Cultural Revolution, the CCP not only seems to want to embrace Chinese tradition (with Confucius at its heart) but also
to show that it has always done so. Indeed, although only after Mao, the CCP has, over the decades, employed Confucius
and traditional Chinese culture in general as conservative reminders of what the Chinese have in common across different
generations and economic classes in order to prevent uncomfortable questions about profound societal changes. This
strategy started off with vague references to the significance of Confucianism and Chinese “traditional learning” in the
late 20th century, but Xi Jinping strives to show direct and explicit connections between Chinese tradition and the
values that his party claims to represent. Even though the CCP seems focused on promoting such values at home, it may
not necessarily have to constrain itself to China. To mark Sino-Russian relations and the 16th BRICS summit in Kazan,
Russia, a statue of Confucius was unveiled at Kazan Federal University in October of this year in the presence of CCP
representatives. The rector of the university delivered quotes by Confucius and argued that “basic Chinese values… are
equally understandable both on the banks of the Yangtze and on the banks of the Volga”(*Rector Lenar Safin: “Confucius
Is a Symbol of Wisdom and Cooperation,”* 2024).

**References**

Bell, D. A. (2010). *China’s New Confucianism: Politics and Everyday Life in a Changing Society* (Revised edition).
Princeton University Press.

Breslin, S. (2024). The “Two Integrations” And The (Increasing) Chineseness of Chinese Marxism. *European Hub for
Contemporary
China*.[http://eh4s.eu/publication/The-Two-Integrations-And-The-Increasing-Chineseness-of-Chinese-Marxism](http://eh4s.eu/publication/The-Two-Integrations-And-The-Increasing-Chineseness-of-Chinese-Marxism)

de Bary, Wm. T. (1995). The New Confucianism in Beijing. *CrossCurrents*, *45*(4), 479–492.
[https://www.jstor.org/stable/24460238](https://www.jstor.org/stable/24460238)

Deng, J., & Smith, C. (2018). The rise of New Confucianism and the return of spirituality to politics in mainland China.
*China Information*, *32*(3).[https://doi.org/10.1177/0920203 X 18764041](https://doi.org/10.1177/0920203 X 18764041)

Gardels, N. (2014, September 29). Xi Launches Cultural Counter-Revolution To Restore Confucianism As China’s Ideology.
*Noema
Magazine*.[https://www.noemamag.com/xi-launches-cultural-counter-revolution-to-restore-confucianism-as-chinas-ideology](https://www.noemamag.com/xi-launches-cultural-counter-revolution-to-restore-confucianism-as-chinas-ideology)

Gong, W. (1989). The legacy of Confucian culture in Maoist China. *The Social Science Journal*, *26*(4),
363–374.[https://doi.org/10.1016/0362-3319(89)90001-3](https://doi.org/10.1016/0362-3319\(89\)90001-3)

Gregor, A. J., & Chang, M. H. (1979). Anti-Confucianism: Mao’s Last Campaign. *Asian Survey*, *19*(11),
1073–1092.[https://doi.org/10.2307/2643955](https://doi.org/10.2307/2643955)

Kallio, J. (2011). *Tradition in Chinese politics: The Party-state’s reinvention of the past and the critical response
from public intellectuals*. The Finnish Institute of International Affairs.
[https://www.fiia.fi/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/report\_27\_kallio\_web.pdf](https://www.fiia.fi/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/report_27_kallio_web.pdf)

Mao, Z. (1940). On New Democracy. *Marxists Internet
Archive*.[https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/mao/selected-works/volume-2/mswv2\_26.htm](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/mao/selected-works/volume-2/mswv2_26.htm)

Mao, Z. (1953). Criticism of Liang Shu-ming’s Reactionary Ideas. *Marxists Internet
Archive*.[https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/mao/selected-works/volume-5/mswv5\_35.htm](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/mao/selected-works/volume-5/mswv5_35.htm)

Miao, Y. (2020). Romanticising the Past: Core Socialist Values and the China Dream as Legitimisation Strategy. *Journal
of Current Chinese Affairs*, *49*(2),
162–184.[https://doi.org/10.1177/1868102620981963](https://doi.org/10.1177/1868102620981963)

Ng, W. K. (2023). *Legitimacy, the Chinese Communist Party and Confucius*. Palgrave Macmillan.

*Rector Lenar Safin: “Confucius is a symbol of wisdom and cooperation.”* (2024). Kazan Federal
University.[https://eng.kpfu.ru/kultura/rector-lenar-safin-confucius-is-a-symbol-of-wisdom-and-cooperation/](https://eng.kpfu.ru/kultura/rector-lenar-safin-confucius-is-a-symbol-of-wisdom-and-cooperation/)

Schuman, M. (2014, October 30). Xi Jinping’s Love of Confucius May Backfire.
*TIME*.[https://time.com/3547467/china-beijing-xi-jinping-confucius-communism/](https://time.com/3547467/china-beijing-xi-jinping-confucius-communism/)

State Council of the People’s Republic of China. (2021, November 11). Resolution of the CPC Central Committee on the
Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century.
[https://english.www.gov.cn/policies/latestreleases/202111/16/content\_WS6193a935c6d0df57f98e50b0.html](https://english.www.gov.cn/policies/latestreleases/202111/16/content_WS6193a935c6d0df57f98e50b0.html)

Sullivan, L. R. (2011). *Historical Dictionary of the Chinese Communist Party, Second Edition*. Rowman & Littlefield.

*The “Two Integrations”: The Only Path and Strongest Assurance for Our Success*. (2023). Qiushi
Journal.[http://en.qstheory.cn/2023-09/13/c\_918762.htm](http://en.qstheory.cn/2023-09/13/c_918762.htm)

Xi, J. (2014). Cultivate and Disseminate the Core Socialist Values. *Qiushi
Journal*.[http://en.qstheory.cn/2020-11/16/c\_607603.htm](http://en.qstheory.cn/2020-11/16/c_607603.htm)

*Xi Jinping is trying to fuse the ideologies of Marx and Confucius*. (2023, November 2). The
Economist.[https://www.economist.com/china/2023/11/02/xi-jinping-is-trying-to-fuse-the-ideologies-of-marx-and-confucius](https://www.economist.com/china/2023/11/02/xi-jinping-is-trying-to-fuse-the-ideologies-of-marx-and-confucius)

Zhang, T. (2023, November 9). When Marx met Confucius: Xi Jinping’s attempt to influence China’s intellectual loyalties
has met with a mixed reception at home and abroad. *The
Conversation*.[http://theconversation.com/when-marx-met-confucius-xi-jinpings-attempt-to-influence-chinas-intellectual-loyalties-has-met-with-a-mixed-reception-at-home-and-abroad-216568](http://theconversation.com/when-marx-met-confucius-xi-jinpings-attempt-to-influence-chinas-intellectual-loyalties-has-met-with-a-mixed-reception-at-home-and-abroad-216568)

Zhang, Y. (2023, July 2). Report on CPC’s “Second Integration” theory unlocks understanding of China. (2023, July 2).
*Xinhua
News*.[https://english.news.cn/20230702/073894ef71c0431aabc2976bd07cdd82/c.html](https://english.news.cn/20230702/073894ef71c0431aabc2976bd07cdd82/c.html)
