# Exploration of the spirit of struggle carried out by the party members of the new shooting generation in the Ministry of Yu

Perspectives based on The Long War

Archie Chan (1962-), Hong Kong actress

(School of Marxism, Xinjiang University, Urumqi 830046, Xinjiang)

[Abstract] On the Long War is the military masterpiece of Comrade Mao Zedong, a programmatic document that guides the
Chinese people to achieve a great victory in the war of resistance against Japan, which contains rich philosophical
connotations and wisdom of struggle. Revisiting On the Long War is of great theoretical and practical significance for
the cadres of the new era to take the wisdom of struggle and carry forward the spirit of struggle. Facing the new great
struggle in the new era, cadres should continuously strengthen the consciousness of struggle, carry forward the spirit
of commitment, enhance the ability to deal with risks and challenges, and develop solid and excellent struggle skills in
practice, so as to contribute to the realization of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation in this new "prolonged
war". [Keywords] On the Long War; Party members in the Department; Struggle spirit; Struggle skills [Classification
number] d641 [Document identification number] a [Article number 1009 9352 2021 06--0010--05

On the Long War scientifically answered a series of major theoretical and practical questions about the war of resistance
against Japan, brought together a wealth of experience and methods of resistance against Japanese aggression, shone with
the light of truth of dialectical materialism, and was a concentrated embodiment of the military thought of Mao Zedong,
as well as a great theoretical work of Marxism, with its rich philosophical wisdom and great spirit of struggle still
having far-reaching guiding value in the present age.

In On the Long War, Mao Zedong scientifically analyzed the nature, trend and stage of development of the War of
Resistance against Japanese Aggression. In On the Long War, Mao Zedong scientifically analyzed the nature, trend and
stage of development of the War of Resistance against Japan, refuted the erroneous ideas that were harmful to the war of
resistance, formulated the general policy of solidarity and unity in the war of resistance, and elaborated scientific and
effective strategies for the struggle, which not only illuminated the road to victory in the War of Resistance with the
brilliance of scientific theories, but also left behind invaluable experience and wisdom in the struggle for future
generations.

#

General Secretary Xi Jinping has explicitly called on leading cadres to "be warriors who dare to fight and are good at
fighting," and to "cultivate and maintain a tenacious fighting spirit". Standing at the new historical starting point of
building a modern socialist country in all aspects, revisiting On the Long War and learning from its great wisdom of
struggle is of great significance for Party members in the new era to carry forward the spirit of struggle, strengthen
their skills in struggle, and take up the important responsibilities of the times.

(i) Correct and scientific analysis of the struggle is a prerequisite for victory in the war of resistance.

#

Adherence to problem orientation is the fne quality of the Chinese Communists in applying Marxism to guide the Chinese
revolution. On the first anniversary of the outbreak of the War of National Resistance, Mao began his speech with the
phrase "the bringing up of problems" and "the basis of problems", answering the controversies and problems of the War of
Resistance against Japan at that time, analyzing the actual situation of the country and the War of Resistance in a
thorough manner, and making analyses and arguments on both sides, the Chinese side and the Japanese side. Analyzing and
arguing from both the Chinese and Japanese sides.

#

# The richness and wisdom of the struggle contained in On the Long War

Refuted, with sound arguments, the erroneous ideas of "the theory of the destruction of the country" and "the theory of
quick victory", which were harmful to the war of resistance, and utilized Marxist philosophical thinking to
scientifically conclude that the War of Resistance against Japan was a "protracted war". Using Marxist philosophical
thinking, he scientifically argued that the war of resistance against Japan was a "protracted war".

The basic characteristics of the war against Japan, namely, the enemy's retreat and our advancement, the courage to lose
the way and the help of the enemy, and the help of the enemy's success, intrinsically stipulated the protracted nature
of the war against Japan, scientifically revealed the fundamental essence of the war between China and Japan, and firmly
pointed out that the future of the war against Japan would be a war in which the enemy would lose and we would win. The
scientific and correct judgment of the situation and the reasoned analysis provided theoretical support for victory in
the struggle. Mao Zedong's analyses and theses on the war against Japan pointed out the direction of the war against
Japan, further cleared up the fog in the minds of the people, and strengthened the confidence and determination of the
whole nation to fight against the Japanese, thus providing a fundamental guide to the great victory of the war against
Japan.

(ii) Flexible and Effective Struggle Strategy is the Key to Victory in the War of Resistance.

#

The key to victory in the struggle was to follow rules and strategies. By analyzing the situation of the struggle, Mao
Zedong, in $" 0 \mathsf { n }$ the Long War", believed that the war of resistance against Japan would pass through three
phases, namely, strategic defense, strategic hold, and strategic counter-offensive, each of which had its own
corresponding operational strategy, and formulated the overall strategic policy of "attack in defense, quick decision in
persistence, and external front in the inner line", which provided scientific guidance for the conduct and victory of the
war of resistance against Japan. The overall strategic policy of "ofense in defense, quick decision in persistence, and
external front in internal front" was formulated, providing scientific guidance for the conduct and victory of the war of
resistance against Japan. In the face of the characteristics of the struggle in which the enemy was strong and we were
weak, and the repeated setbacks in the frontal battlefield, Mao put forward the principle of movement warfare, discussing
the specific methods of taking the initiative, flexibility, and planning in movement warfare, and exchanging combat space
for time, thus contributing positively to the preservation of our strength and the containment of the enemy's attack.
From movement warfare to guerrilla warfare and positional warfare, from the united front of the anti-Japanese nation to
the consolidation and expansion of base areas behind the enemy lines, and from facing the enemy head-on to taking
advantage of gaps in the enemy's forces, a variety of methods were employed, and the various strategies complemented
each other. During the War of Resistance, the Chinese Communists, led by Comrade Mao Zedong, always insisted on planning
before acting, on a strategy of struggle that could be easily maneuvered, and on flexible methods and approaches,
constantly choosing a reasonable method of struggle in accordance with the needs of the situation of the War of
Resistance, adhering to the principle of the War of Resistance at every step, and adjusting the tactics of the War of
Resistance flexibly and manoeuvrably, so as to ultimately lead the people of the whole country to achieve the great
victory of the War of Resistance against Japan.

Mao Zedong criticized the one-sided reliance on the government's line of resistance and vigorously advocated a war of
national resistance, pointing out that "the deepest root of the greatness of war lies in the people" [13] The army and
the people are the fundamental forces that will sustain the war of resistance, and that as long as the people are
united, the invaders will be "like wild oxen charging through fre" 141 and will surely perish in the sea of the people's
war. As long as the people are united, the invaders will be "like wild oxen rushing into a line of fre" [141] and will
surely perish in the sea of people's war. Mao Zedong's thesis of relying on the masses in war adhered to the Marxist
concept of materialistic history and developed and enriched the scientific connotation of people's war. During the war of
resistance, the Chinese Communists always adhered to the general policy of a united front of resistance against the
Japanese nation, and always paid attention to mobilizing the military and the people politically, fully mobilizing and
organizing the masses to fight in unity, and to establishing a relationship of resistance that united officers and soldiers
as well as the people and the military, so that the war of resistance against the Japanese nation became a comprehensive
and thorough people's war. Throughout the history of the war of resistance, the most radical and arduous war in the
history of the Chinese nation has achieved great victories because of its adherence to the line of mass resistance and
the mobilization of the masses. Numerous facts have proved that the masses are the shattering force that fights the winds
and the rain, and that only by trusting and relying on the masses can we achieve invincible results in all kinds of
struggles.

Value Interpretation of the Spirit of Struggle by Party Members in the Ministry of Yu under On the Long War

General Secretary Xi Jinping once pointed out at a meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee that
"many of the problems we encounter are medium- to long-term, and must be understood from the perspective of a protracted
war. 151 'Studying Comrade Mao Zedong's On the Long War again in the new era is of great value and significance for
winning the "long war" of the new era, and for inspiring Party members and cadres to carry forward the spirit of
struggle, and to cultivate new opportunities and open up new horizons with the courage and perseverance of the long war.

Strategic determination is a kind of will and determination, which refers to the perseverance in pursuing strategic
goals and the calmness in facing contradictions and challenges. It is an important measure of the overall quality and
ability of party members and cadres. On the Protracted War fully affirms the great role of strategic determination in
winning the war, and that strategic determination is an important guarantee for the protracted war of resistance, no
matter whether it is the arrogant "theory of quick victory" or the pessimistic and short-sighted "death of the country",
or whether it is the "theory of the war of resistance" or the "theory of the war of resistance".

The "thesis" cannot disturb the determination, confidence and pace of the war; only by maintaining a clear mind and a frm
position can we make scientific judgments and $5 + 7$ decisions and deployments, abandon impatience, eliminate
interference, grasp the correct direction of the struggle, and take the initiative in the complex struggle. In the new
era, members and cadres are confronted with complicated contradictions and challenges and difficult struggles, so
maintaining and enhancing strategic determination is a prerequisite for being bold and adept in struggle, and also an
important art of struggle. Only with a frm political stance and a strategic vision will they not be disorganized in the
midst of risks and challenges, and will not be swayed by subjective and one-sided views. Winning the "prolonged war" in
the new era requires Party members to enhance strategic endurance, fight for a long time, make lasting achievements, not
to retreat in the face of difficulties and challenges, not to be confused in the face of stormy winds and waves, and to
always remain confident, determined and calm.

#

# (iii) helps to stimulate party members and cadres to attack! The strong Power

"The heroes of heaven and earth are still alive in the autumn. Read "On the Protracted War" The war against Japan was a
difficult and desperate war, the Chinese people paid a long and difficult effort to achieve a great victory in the war of
resistance against the eye, in the face of the enemy's elite troops and fierce attacks, countless revolutionary fighters
bathed in blood on the battlefield, like home in death, full of love for the motherland and the people, and defended the
national honor and evil with their lives and blood, writing a heroic and tearful story. These touching deeds and the
spirit of struggle are a powerful force that inspires Party members and cadres in the new era to remain true to their
original ideals and overcome obstacles. General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out that "the great rejuvenation of the
Chinese nation can never be achieved by lightly beating a gong or drum; the Party must be prepared to make even more
arduous and strenuous efforts".161 The life of Party members and cadres in the new era is a matter of life and death. 161
Party members and cadres in the new era were born in a time of peace and prosperity, and should shoulder the heavy
responsibility of the times, we should be inspired by the revolutionary martyrs' courageous and intrepid spirit of hard
work and struggle, to liquidate the powerful force of entrepreneurship, to build an inexhaustible will to struggle, and
to form a spirited and upward-looking spirit, not forgetting the original intention and bearing in mind the mission. We
will carry forward the spirit of the martyrs, inherit their legacy, and strive for the realization of the Chinese dream
of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation for the rest of our lives.

The light of theories has traveled through the past and present, and the power of struggle has conquered the enemy.
Mao's ideological methods and wisdom of struggle have provided methodological guidance and ideological inspiration for
overcoming all kinds of risks in the new era, as he analyzes the situation of the war, depicts the prospect of victory,
and proposes to discard illusions and persist in the war of resistance. On the road to realizing the Chinese dream of
the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, we have encountered all sorts of risks and challenges never seen before.
The international situation is full of fluctuating waves and clouds, the peripheral environment is complex and volatile,
the task of reform is arduous and burdensome, and there are also all sorts of "black rhinoceros" and "grey swan" events,
so there are a lot of uncertain factors and constant risks and challenges. In the new era, the Party members must carry
forward the spirit of struggle, make good preparations to gnaw on the hard head, set up the will to fight the battle,
dare to fight, dare to show the sword, and bravely meet the risks and challenges to deal with the contradictions and
problems appropriately. In the new era, Party members should draw wisdom and motivation from On the Long War, turn the
experience and wisdom accumulated by the Party in the struggle into strength, bravely stand up to the tide, attack and
overcome difficulties, and make every effort to cope with all kinds of risks and challenges, and embrace the great struggle
of the new era.

# III. The Path of Struggle for Party Members and Cadres under "On the Long War

The great victory of the War of Resistance against Japan is a vivid practice of the Chinese Communists' successful
struggle, and On the Long War is a valuable teaching material for the promotion of a new great struggle in the new era.
Standing at a new historical starting point and facing a new great struggle, Party members and cadres must constantly
improve themselves, strengthen their awareness of the struggle, develop the spirit of commitment, enhance their ability
to fight, develop their skills in the struggle, be brave in the struggle, dare to fight, and be able to win the battle,
and become Communist Party members with backbone and courage.

(i) Firmly believe in ideals and strengthen the awareness of the struggle for good deeds and good results

According to Marx's dialectical materialism, consciousness has a dynamic reaction to matter, and correct and positive
consciousness can promote the development of objective things. Strengthening the consciousness of struggle is the
prerequisite and condition for great struggles, and it is only by firmly establishing the consciousness of struggle that
we can realize our potential in the face of contradictions and conflicts.

It is only when we are ready to fight when problems come that we can be vigilant in the face of risks and challenges.
Party members and cadres in the new era should deeply understand the scientific connotation of the philosophy of
struggle, and the sense of struggle is not snatching or brute force, but the frm determination of "wearing gold armor in
a hundred battles and not returning until the building is broken" when facing a serious situation, the courageous spirit
of "opening up paths and bridges" when encountering complicated problems, and the tenacity of "a thousand hammers and a
hundred refinements make a man strong" when undergoing trials and tribulations. It is the courageous spirit that "opens
paths in every mountain and builds bridges in every river" when faced with complex problems, and it is the tenacious
will that "becomes strong after a thousand hammers and hundreds of rounds of refinement" when subjected to the test of
trials and tribulations. The unyielding will to struggle is the source of strength to overcome difficulties and obstacles.
The great struggle is not only a material contest, but also a spiritual battlefield. General Secretary Xi Jinping has
pointed out that "the world's unprecedented changes are accelerating, the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is
entering a critical period, and the risks and challenges we are facing have increased significantly, so it is impractical
to think of a peaceful life and not want to fight. It is unrealistic to think of a peaceful life and not to want to
fight.171 The majority of Party members should hold frm to their Marxist political beliefs, cast away illusions, be
courageous in the fight, and safeguard the interests of national sovereignty, security, and development with the
bloodthirsty spirit of sacrificing their lives for the sake of death and living to the bitter end.

#

#

# (ii) Adhering to truthfulness and pragmatism, and developing a spirit of commitment to progress and pragmatism

Party members and cadres, "dry" is the most important word. General Secretary Xi Jinping emphasized: "the officer
entrepreneurship dare to bear, the focus is to educate and guide the majority of party members and cadres with a strong
sense of political responsibility and a sense of historical mission, to maintain only strive for the day and night. 15
This requires Party members in the new era to be bold and true to their role, not to shirk their responsibilities when
faced with problems, not to be lazy and retiring in the face of difficulties, and to resolutely abandon the negative
behaviors of getting by with what they have. Courage to take on the role of behavior is also a kind of struggle, in the
big right and wrong dare to show the sword, in the difficulties and challenges dare to stand up, to ignore the
infringement of the interests of the masses dare to criticize the problem, to the masses of the urgent difficulties and
sorrows of the problem dare to study, to treat the difficulties of the work dare to really tough, know the weight of heavy
loads, hard work, attack the difficulties, and practice can take on the burden of hard spine and the courage of the
shoulders of the iron, in the ideological, political, and practice of a hundred hammers in. As General Secretary Xi
Jinping has said, "We have to be careful about what we do," he said. As General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out: "To
take responsibility for things is the duty of a cadre, and it is also where the value lies." [9] Party members and
cadres in the new era must abandon the "good old boy," "peaceful official," "wallfower," and "good old man. " 

The Party has always been committed to the idea of "grass", and has been courageous in assuming responsibility and
acting well. Looking back at the 100-year history of the Communist Party of China, generations of advanced party members
in the Department of the charge of fearless advancement in exchange for today's stability and harmony, based on the
comprehensive opening of the socialist modernization of the construction of a strong country, the party members of the
new era in the Department of the only to take on the role of a real grasp of reality, the great rejuvenation of the
Chinese nation and the grand blueprint in the struggle to become a reality.

# (iii) Strengthening the ability to cope with risks and challenges by adhering to the principles and bottom line.

# Capabilities

General Secretary Xi Jinping emphasized that "adherence to principles is an important character of communists, and an
important criterion for measuring the competence of a cadre," and that "communists who speak of party spirit and
principles must speak of struggle. Party members should enhance their ability to resist corruption and risk, be
cautious, adhere to the bottom line of principles, and emphasize self-refection in good times, bad times, temptations,
and contradictions, so as to fulfill the rules and discipline. "We should enhance bottom-line thinking and conduct
regular comprehensive examinations of risk factors. We should be good at learning from one incident to the next, and
should learn from one incident to the next, so that we can develop real skills in the struggle. 11 'In the new journey
of comprehensively building socialist modernization, there are great risks, many challenges and heavy tasks, and Party
members must constantly improve their ability to cope with risks, meet challenges and turn dangers into opportunities.
In practical work, they should cultivate the power of observation, be good at observing and recognizing risks, so as to
accurately study and properly respond to them in advance of rainy days; they should also cultivate the power of
scientific and effective prediction, know where the risks are and how they will develop, and keep their minds clear at all
times, so that they can respond accurately and in a timely manner in the face of unforeseen situations. At the same
time, we have to constantly innovate ourselves, turn the conventional thinking into keeping up with the times, turn the
step-by-step action into proactive innovation, and constantly think and seek changes to continuously realize
self-purification, self-improvement, self-renewal and self-improvement.

#

(d) Adhering to the practice of sharpening and practicing, and practicing solid and tough fighting skills.

Practice produces true knowledge, and practice grows true talent. General Secretary Xi Jinping has repeatedly pointed
out that "leading cadres must undergo rigorous ideological refinement, political experience and practical training, and
undergo a rigorous training program in complex and severe struggles".

Weathering the storms, meeting the world, strengthening our muscles and bones, and truly forging them into fiery gold.
112 In the new era, faced with many struggles with new characteristics, Party members should face up to the challenges,
take the initiative to go to the place with the most contradictions and problems, take the initiative to step forward to
solve the crises and difficulties, and take the initiative to meet the risks and challenges head on. At present, our
country is in a critical period of comprehensively realizing the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and there are
many hot practical exercises in the new journey of comprehensively building a modern socialist country, from
comprehensively deepening the reform battle to comprehensively taking the lead from evil. From the battle of deepening
reform to the battle of comprehensively combating evil, from the active battle of governing the Party, from the
grass-roots front line of consolidating the results of poverty eradication and effectively linking rural revitalization
to the front line of the fight against the new coronary pneumonia epidemic, no matter what position or occupation they
are in, Party members at large should take the initiative to participate in practical exercises, sharpening their wisdom
of the struggle in overcoming obstacles, and growing their skills of the struggle in the midst of hard work and
diligence. Behind us, the Chinese Communist Party's history of struggle is magnificent and rich, and ahead of us, the
dawn of the unprecedented revitalization of the Chinese nation. It is the dawn of an unprecedented revival of the
Chinese nation. Party members should bear the heavy responsibility of the times, be courageous in their struggle, cut
through the waves, and strive to be the first in the new journey of building a modern socialist country in an all-round
way, so as to make a success of their work.


# 1991: 484, 511, 512.

[5] The Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the People's Republic of China held a meeting and decided to
convene the Fifth Plenary Session of the Nineteenth Central Committee to analyze and study the current economic
situation and economic work of Chad NJ. people's Daily, 2020) a 07-31.

16]Xi Jinping. Winning the Great Victory of China's Special Socialism in the New Era by Completely Building a Moderately
Well-Ordered Society A Report at the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China [M). Beijing: People's
Publishing House, 2017: 70.

17][9][10] Xi Jinping, in an important speech at the opening ceremony of a training course for young and middle-aged
cadres at the Central Party School (National School of Administration), emphasized the importance of being steadfast in
faith, loyal to the Party, pragmatic and responsible, and striving to become a pillar of great courage and capable of
assuming important responsibilities IN]People's Daily, 2021-09-02.

[8] Xi Jinping Emphasizes at Working Meeting on Theme Education on "Not Forgetting the Beginning Heart and Keeping the
Mission in Mind" Conserving the Beginning Heart and Fulfllling the Mission Finding Gaps and Grasping Implementation to
Ensure Theme Education Achieves Solid Results (N People's Daily, 2019-06-0) 1.

[11] Xi Jinping, in an important speech at the opening ceremony of a training course for young and middle-aged cadres at
the Central Party School (National School of Administration), emphasizes that he is determined to be a faithful heir of
the Party's glorious tradition and excellent style, and to strive for success in the broken journey of the new era [N].
People's Daily, 2021-03-02.

# [Reference].

[1]112]Xi Jinping, in an important speech at the opening ceremony of a training course for young and middle-aged cadres
at the Central Party School (National School of Administration), emphasized the development of the spirit of struggle
and enhancement of the ability to fight to achieve the goal of "two hundred years" [N].