# China Maritime Report No. 40: Onboard Political Control - The Ship Political Commissar in Chinese Merchant Shipping

Conor M. Kennedy

China Maritime Report No. 40

# Onboard Political Control The Ship Political Commissar in Chinese Merchant Shipping

Conor M. Kennedy

[Image: Missing image]

# Summary

Since the creation of the People’s Republic of China’s merchant fleet, the Chinese Communist Party has implemented a
system of political control aboard oceangoing vessels through ship Party branches and ship political commissars. This
report focuses on the ship political commissar, a Party representative assigned to oceangoing merchant ships,
particularly within state-owned shipping enterprises, to carry out political and administrative work in the management
of ship crews. Having peaked in authority and power during the Cultural Revolution, the ship political commissar
position has evolved over the decades following economic reforms in the 1980s. Despite years of problematic
implementation, the ship political commissar system is currently undergoing a revitalization in staterun shipping
companies. The position has supporting roles to play in carrying out national tasking such as evacuations of overseas
Chinese citizens. Most ship political commissars are former PLA officers. Chinese roll-on/roll-off ferry operators
constitute a special case where the ship political commissar may have greater authority in the ship hierarchy and
potentially a role in supporting PLA use of those vessels. This report focuses on the ship political commissar system
over the last 20 years, providing a needed update on this understudied topic in the English-language literature.

# Introduction

The leadership structure aboard People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Navy warships is typically structured around a Communist
Party Committee, led by co-equal political commissars and captains.1 This arrangement ensures Party control over the
navy’s warships as they operate at sea. Seldom discussed is a similar structure of Party control aboard the oceangoing
vessels of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) state-run shipping fleet. This arrangement involves the assignment of
ship political commissars (㡩㡦᭯င) on oceangoing ships to establish and lead the shipboard Party branch (ފ᭟䜘).

The use of the political commissar in PRC shipping is an underrecognized and understudied aspect of global shipping. The
Chinese Communist Party (CCP) requires the means to assert control and influence through the ship Party branches and the
ship political commissar system because the maritime transport sector is critical for national development. The CCP has
long implemented an organizational system within the major state-owned shipping enterprises that runs down through their
subsidiaries and aboard the ships themselves. COSCO Shipping Corporation Limited (COSCO Shipping) is the PRC’s largest
state-run shipping conglomerate and is a prime example of the assertion of political control over the maritime transport
industry. Ship Party branches and ship political commissars are present on many, if not most of the company’s oceangoing
fleet. The political commissars on these PRC ships play a unique role in managing vessels, but remain largely unfamiliar
to the rest of the world’s shipping industry.

Little has been written about the system in the English-language literature over the last 20 years. This report attempts
to fill this gap and examine recent developments to the ship political commissar system. It first describes the position
and its roles, then examines key enterprises that continue to employ ship political commissars. The third section
explores continued problems related to the system, as well as the latest initiatives to bolster political commissar
ranks and strengthen their overall quality, as part of a revitalization of the position in the Xi Jinping era.

Lastly, the positions potential roles in supporting national security and nationally-relevant tasking of the merchant
shipping fleet are examined, with special focus on the ship political commissars serving aboard Roll-on/Roll-off (RO-RO)
passenger ferries – many of which are involved in training activities to support the military and may feature a uniquely
enhanced role for the ship political commissar.

# The Role of a Ship Political Commissar

The ship political commissar is a representative of the Party-State assigned to PRC oceangoing merchant vessels,
particularly within state-owned shipping enterprises, to carry out political and administrative work in the management
of ship crews. The status, prestige, and roles of the position have changed with the transformation of the PRC’s economy
from the Mao era to the period of reform initiated under Deng Xiaoping. This period is excellently documented in the
study The Political Commissar and His Shipmates – Transformation of the Commissar’s Role on Chinese Ships
(⎧⌻кⲴ⽮Պ̢ѝഭ୶㡩᭯ငо㡩ઈⲴ㡚⎧⭏⍫). Its authors explore the ship political commissar system in great depth and describe how the
position’s power and influence has waned from the 1980s to the early 2000s as the position was forced to adapt to a
market-oriented enterprise climate.2 The ship political commissar system has persisted after their book was published,
despite a gradual decline in the position’s significance and implementation due to reductions in crew sizes and
ever-intensifying competition in shipping markets.3 As discussed below, the system has seen a revitalization in recent
years, although problems persist.

Broadly speaking, the ship political commissar has four main roles in their work. First and foremost, they act as
representative of the Party-state and must maintain social order on ships, uphold PRC laws and regulations, protect the
national image, and implement broader national goals as direct by the government. They are front-line elements of the
CCP and must establish and lead the ship Party branch, conduct political work aboard the vessel, guide crew in political
study sessions, and recruit prospective Party members from the crew.4

Ship political commissars fulfill the following specific responsibilities, in addition to other supporting functions.

-Ensure the functioning role of grassroots Party organization is fulfilled through the ship’s Party Branch and
strengthen political ideological education and moral values among seafarers.

-Serve the primary tasks of the ship by facilitating communication and coordination, resolving issues between ship
departments and between members of the shipboard community. Fostering unity and cohesion assures production and
completion of the ship’s work.

-Guide the work of various shipboard committees such as the trade union, youth league branch, mess committee, and
security committee to raise enthusiasm among the crew, especially in guiding younger crew members. The political
commissar plays a large role in supporting the work of the mess committee as it directly impacts crew morale and
cohesion.

-As of 2010, an important mission of grassroots Party organizations is to participate in innovation and excellence
initiatives. As the leader of the ship Party Branch, the political commissar is responsible for facilitating activities
that promote innovation and excellence in ship and crew work.

-Fulfill security functions aboard ships to prevent pollution, implement security and emergency response measures,
conduct safety inspections, and prevent personnel and property loss. The political commissar is responsible for
implementing the “ship security plan.”5

The ship political commissar is responsible for meeting company goals by enhancing the efficiency and safety of ship
operations. They protect the ship’s image and ensure security by managing the crew, encouraging unity, coordination, and
work quality. Ideological education and behavioral monitoring ensure crewmembers listen to management and follow the
rules. The political commissar also plays a role in resolving interpersonal or interdepartmental conflicts and
stabilizing and raising crew morale.6

The ship political commissar shares authority with the ship captain. Officially, the captain and political commissar are
the two most senior personnel on board. The captain focuses on ship operations while the political commissar focuses on
handling personnel and social issues. The relationship between the captain and the political commissar has changed over
the decades in-step with the overall reduction in Party interference in enterprise operations. Prior to PRC economic
reforms, ship political commissars exercised much greater power. Their power peaked near the end of the cultural
revolution, when the “Political Commissar Responsibility System” (᭯င䍏䍓ࡦ ( was put into force in 1975, ending in 1978.
During this period, ship political commissars were in charge of most ship affairs.7 They subsequently lost much of their
power after economic reforms were enacted and companies focused on profitability and efficiency. By 1988, the “Captain
Responsibility System” (㡩䮯䍏䍓ࡦ ( was established, giving captains the greatest responsibility and decisionmaking power
aboard ships. The political commissar was expected to assist the captain and fulfill responsibilities in crew
management. This arrangement relieves the captain of some burdens so they can focus on ship operations. Focusing on crew
management, the political commissar ensures the captain’s instructions are executed.8

Despite the loss of authority, the numerous shared responsibilities and authorities between the captain and the
political commissar can be detrimental to the captain’s position at the top of the ship hierarchy. The political
commissar still sits atop the ship’s Party structure, i.e. the Party branch. The Party branch is typically comprised of
the political commissar, the captain, and the chief engineer, referred to as the “Three Chiefs” (й䮯).9

Serving as secretary of the Party branch, with the captain as deputy Party secretary, the political commissar exercises
significant influence on the ship and ashore with the enterprise’s Party committee. This is especially due to their
influence on promotions and evaluations of personnel, including the captain. Evaluations are conducted at the conclusion
of every voyage, during which the captain and the political commissar will assess each other’s performance and the
performance of the crew. The political commissar, in their administrative capacity, can yield influence through their
duties in crew management reporting, such as through the individual sailor review forms.10 This ability to supervise the
captain’s performance can have the effect of balancing out their authority.11

[Image: Missing image]
Exhibit 1: The “Three Chiefs” of the 20,000-TEU containership COSCO SHIPPING LEO’s Party Branch during a 2018 media
event in Shanghai’s largest container port marking the $4 0 ^ { t h }$ anniversary of China’s reform and opening. Their
respective positions are readily identified by shoulder patches, with the chief engineer (left, propeller), the
political commissar (center, star), and the captain (right, anchor).12

The ship political commissar plays a significant role in supporting the crew. They promote their professional
development, track their performance in the evaluation process, and protects their legal rights and interests.13 The
political commissar helps educate crew of laws and regulations, Party rules, company standards and policies, domestic
and international affairs, and relevant information on foreign ports and countries. Security in ports and strict
management of personnel going ashore is also a key responsibility of the political commissar. The political commissar
may also help crew members resolve problems during their time at sea, such as familial problems back home.14

Most ship political commissars are former PLA officers. Prior to the 1970s, when the PRC merchant fleet was much
smaller, active-duty PLA regimental and battalion-grade officers were selected to serve as political commissars aboard
oceangoing ships. These positions were later converted to civil political commissars by the 1970s. COSCO is historically
a big recruiter of former regimental and battalion-grade political officers to serve as political commissars. This is
still generally the case since political officers offer personnel that are essentially ready to serve in the position
with relatively little additional training and the post provides some employment opportunities for transitioning
servicemembers.15 Other sources of political commissars may come from within the company organization. Personnel in some
redundant positions aboard ships that were gradually phased out, such as stewards and radio officers, were also
retrained as political commissars.16

As part of the crew, the ship political commissar should attain minimum maritime qualifications, typically registered on
vessels as an ordinary seaman rating.17 Ship political commissars undergo some company provided management and
seamanship training, taken at mariner training and education schools.18 Given their roles, the ship political commissar
is not hired for their seamanship, but rather their loyalty to the Party, adherence to Party rules and discipline,
ability to conduct political work, and ability to lead personnel and groups. Nevertheless, basic seamanship is necessary
for the political commissar to be effective on the ship and managing its crew.19 They will, after all, be working with
the crew at sea for seven to nine months.20

# Ship Political Commissars in the State-owned Shipping Conglomerates

The PRC’s largest state-owned shipping company, COSCO Shipping (originally China Ocean Shipping Company), has been a
critical support for PRC economic development since it was founded. Established in 1961, COSCO has implemented the
practice of establishing Party branches and assigning political commissars on its oceangoing vessels. This was strongly
influenced by the PLA practice of establishing Party branches at company-level units (᭟䜘ᔪ൘䘎к), which in this case,
vessels would carry the Party branch.21 The state-owned merchant fleets were subject to international influence, but
also represented the PRC around the world, thus requiring a shipboard political organization to ensure Party control
over crews and to manage international contact.22

COSCO Shipping still implements the Party branch and ship political commissar system today in its fleet of over 1,400
vessels across different shipping industries. These sectors includes container shipping, dry bulk, petroleum and
chemicals, general and specialized cargo shipping, and RO-RO shipping.2 3

The size of this fleet is a result of the 2016, $\$ 8.7$ billion USD merger between China Ocean Shipping (Group) Company
(COSCO) and China Shipping (Group) Company (China Shipping), previously the PRC’s two largest state-owned shipping
conglomerates.24 Both COSCO and China Shipping implemented the Party branch and ship political commissar system. COSCO,
for example, had about 750 ship political commissars serving aboard nearly 800 ships prior to the merger.25 After the
merger in 2017, the newly created COSCO Shipping Corporation was reported to have 895 shipboard Party Branches and
around 1,200 ship political commissars serving in the fleet.26 These numbers would decrease somewhat over the following
years, hitting over 1,000 ship political commissars, supplemented by some temporary commissars, overseeing 768 ship
Party branches in 2021.27

To manage these grassroots Party structures and the ship political commissars, COSCO’s Leading Party Group (䳶ഒފ㓴)
institutes a system of regulations, organizations, and management. They include formal rules for Party branch work,
qualification standards for ship political commissars, and performance evaluations. Such structures are portrayed as a
“bastion” for the Party on every ship, ensuring ship society has a “backbone” for meeting the various tasks required of
shipping.28 COSCO also has formal training programs for its ship political commissars. These programs are held within
COSCO’s own seafarer training schools in Qingdao as well as in branch vocational institutes. For example, the Qingdao
Ocean Shipping Mariners College provides ship political commissar training for COSCO crews.29 This school also has
formal training programs to build up its ranks of “reserve ship political commissars” (ਾ༷㡩㡦᭯င). Reserve commissars are
made up of captains, chief engineers, and Party members in other positions, serving as “hybrid” backup political
commissars to fill in when needed.30

While COSCO is the largest company implementing the ship political commissar system, other stateowned shipping
enterprises do as well. Another key state-owned conglomerate engaged in shipping is China Merchant Energy Shipping, Co.
(ᤋ୶ተ㜭Ⓚ䘀䗃㛑ԭᴹ䲀ޜਨ / CMES). In fact, it predates COSCO in its creation of the ship political commissar system. After the
founding of the PRC, a system of military representatives was used to help deal with the predations of Nationalist
forces on communist shipping. The Ministry of Transport officially changed these representatives to political commissars
in March 1954.31

Today CMES, operates over 300 ships, including 109 tankers, 52 of which are very large crude carriers (over 200,000
deadweight tons), making it the second largest state-owned oil tanker fleet next to COSCO Shipping. It also operates up
to 37 very large ore carriers, as well as many other coastal and international car carriers, liquified natural gas
ships, container ships, and other general cargo vessels.32 Embarked on some of these critical inputs to the PRC economy
are ship political commissars leading shipboard Party branches.33 CMES reported having 100 ship Party branches in late
2020, committing to the company’s goal of “building Party branches on all vessels requiring them” (ᓄᔪޘᔪ).34 However, it
is unclear how many and what types of CMES vessels carry political commissars and how extensive the system is
implemented. It is likely the largest and most critical ships on international voyages that carry a political commissar.

# Problems in the Ship Political Commissar System

The ship political commissar system is plagued by persistent problems. The system has significant historical baggage and
is not well understood outside of China, resulting in PRC attempts to reduce its international exposure. The system was
covertly implemented in the beginning with political commissars often referred to as “deputy captains.” The PRC
officially recognized the presence of ship political commissars in 1967 as international commercial actors gradually
became aware of their existence.35 Moreover, in regulatory terms, the position lies outside of the PRC’s professional
mariner field and instead exists within Party structures. Ship political commissars are absent from the PRC’s 2020
Sailor Regulations (㡩ઈ⌅) or the annual “China’s Sailor Development Report,” both published by the Ministry of
Transport.36

These and many other official documents on shipping contain no references to ship political commissars, despite their
leadership position aboard thousands of vessels. The PRC may have intentionally omitted them to avoid problems in
aligning PRC regulations with established international maritime standards, such as the International Convention on
Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers and other widely followed international standards.
Indeed, some PRC writings suggest the ship political commissar system presents a major challenge in reconciling PRC
regulations with international practices.37

At the mercy of market forces and political requirements, some companies struggle to implement the ship political
commissar system due to their personnel structures. In some cases, there are simply not enough political commissars to
deploy among the fleet.38 While COSCO has been steadfast in its commitment to maintaining a force of ship political
commissars, other SOEs have adopted more moderated approaches. Guoneng Yuanhai Shipping Co. Ltd. (ഭ㜭䘌⎧㡚䘀ᴹ䲀ޜਨ) operates
59 bulk carriers that ensure steady coal supplies to China Energy Group’s regional power plants.39 Like many other
shipping companies, it faces challenges in building ship Party structures because the majority of crew do not belong to
the enterprise itself but are instead outsourced to professional crew management companies. Of the 1,397 personnel
aboard the fleet, only 85 belong to Guoneng Yuanhai Shipping. Of the 1,397 personnel, 161 are Party members, but only 5
of those actually fall under the company itself. With high turnover rates and low quality among outsourced crew members
that have Party membership, it is difficult to equitably distribute these members across the fleet.40 Guoneng Yuanhai
Shipping struggles to achieve the three-Party member minimum required to establish Party branches aboard each ship.41

To fix this problem, Guoneng Yuanhai Shipping adopted the “floating political commissar mechanism” (⍱ࣘ᭯ငᵪࡦ(. Beginning
in 2019, 8 personnel were chosen from the company’s ranks to serve as these floating ship political commissars. Each
were assigned to 5 or 6 vessels and would serve one to two months aboard each, providing political commissar coverage
for up to 40 vessels. While aboard, they would conduct Party building work and complete their task lists and evaluation
activities. The solution envisions a fleet divided into four groups, each forming a “clustered” Party branch that would
incorporate both shore-based managers and the Party members among the ship crews.42 This case demonstrates a compromise
between SOE Party building requirements and the challenges of operating under competitive market conditions.

The system has also suffered from qualities issues in among the ranks of ship political commissars. One ship political
commissar from the Guangzhou Branch of COSCO Shipping Seafarer Management Co., Ltd., COSCO Shipping’s company dedicated
to personnel management, noted in 2022 that some commissars are inadequate in their responsibilities and cannot meet the
high expectations set by crews and companies. They lack political awareness and ethics, lack professional skills, are
unsuitable role models for crew. This causes poor results in their ideological and political work. Critically, a poor
performing political commissar will fail to gain the trust of the crew and captain. They would thus struggle to
effectively manage crew members, understand crew issues, and adequately perform their duties on board.43

Some issues in the ship political commissar system stem from contemporary socioeconomic dynamics and a lack of
receptiveness by the crew. The PRC’s rapid economic growth has resulted in many youth pursuing other careers ashore,
making the merchant mariner life less appealing. They are also less open to the guidance of political commissars. Those
youth that do join the seafaring life are difficult for ship political commissars to manage. One political commissar
noted that current younger crew members are more difficult to understand and the spread of communication platforms, such
as smart phones and social media, has compounded the situation; unlike past generations of ship crews, who were
typically more obedient.44 In general, the merchant mariner career in the PRC has declined in its prestige and relative
economic standing, resulting in increased skepticism among crews toward the ideological work of political commissars.45
Societal influence and a general lack of clarity on the responsibilities of the ship political commissar has also caused
confusion among the commissars themselves. Some ship political commissars have lost their sense of mission and have let
ship Party branch discipline slide.46

The ship political commissar career is generally viewed as a dead end with few prospects for advancement, unlike the
career trajectory of other ship officers and technical positions. Many political commissars serve their entire careers
in the same position, resulting demotivation and poor work performance.47 In addition to poor career prospects, the
position has long suffered from obsolescence. The political functions of the role and standing among the crew has
weakened. Previous reductions in political and ideological work for the sake of supporting the commercial operations of
companies, the inability to adapt Party ideology to maintain relevance for modern crews, and the increasing
technological sophistication of shipping has likely further diluted the importance of ship political commissars.48 In
some cases, ship political commissars may resort to filing reports to impress their company superiors.49 To improve
their relevance, one expert recommends strengthening their sense of mission, enhancing their status as role models in
morality and ethics for the crew, asserting greater discipline, and continuing implementation of company training
programs for political commissars.50 These are hardly innovative solutions to issues that have persisted for decades.

In 2015, experts with direct knowledge of training ship political commissars published an article that argued for
potential solutions. They called for greater clarification and definition of the ship political commissar’s roles and
responsibilities to fix the issue of the position being maintained for the purpose of having the position, rather than
the actual utility and qualification of a political commissar. Instead of having political commissars fulfill numerous
roles on board each ship, they should focus on their core mission as a Party representative and political worker on
board. They should be evaluated accordingly and ship captains should exercise greater patience and support them.
Professional training should be strengthened at merchant marine training institutes in conjunction with a formal and
standardized certification process as well as a more robust evaluation system. Interestingly, they recommended the
creation of a rank system for political commissars that would incentivize current commissars to work harder and promote
the position to new seafarers.51 This further highlighted the reality of ship political commissar as a career track with
low expectations for future growth.

# A Revitalization of Ship Political Commissars in COSCO Shipping

The PRC’s economic development since it opened to trade and investment gradually culminated in a broad alignment of
national interests that would lead Hu Jintao to announce a strategy to become a maritime power during the $1 8 ^ {
\mathrm { t h } }$ Party Congress. 52 This strategy would accelerate under Xi Jinping through stronger emphasis on the
merchant fleets carrying inputs and outputs globally, the merchant fleets. The State Council’s issuance of “Opinions of
the State Council on Promoting the Sound Development of the Shipping Industry” in 2014 set forth the importance of the
national shipping industry for social and economic development and outlined a number of reforms to strengthen its
structure and international competitiveness. These opinions noted the overarching goal of development was to build the
PRC into a “powerful shipping country” (⎧䘀ᕪഭ).53 Subsequent official documents and announcements, including the State
Council’s release of “The Outline for Building a Powerful Transportation Nation” and the cross-governmental issuance of
the “Guiding Opinions on Vigorously Promoting High-Quality Development of the Shipping Industry” would further highlight
the sector’s importance. Xi himself declared that the shipping industry would be the top priority.54 With this
consistent top-level guidance, the PRC has worked to improve the overall structure and operations of the shipping
industry, with state-owned shipping giant COSCO leading the way.

A key part of this effort would require improvements to the management and organization of the PRC’s large merchant
marine. Enhanced Party leadership acts as a core guarantee of this development. Initiatives would be conducted as part
of the broader national reforms of SOEs in 2016 that aimed to strengthen Party corporate governance and influence within
the enterprise system.55 Xi emphasized the importance of strengthening grassroots Party organizations in his remarks
during the National Conference on Party Building in State-Owned Enterprises held on October 10, 2016. 56 In response,
COSCO decided to further enhance coverage of its fleets using the ship Party branches and ship political commissars.57

To strengthen ship crew leadership, COSCO worked on improving the quality of its ship political commissars through
training as well as growing the ranks through increased recruiting and other alternate methods. This effort began in
earnest after the multi-year merger of COSCO and China Shipping Group, involving complex reorganization of many
businesses, was completed.58 To guide efforts at strengthening ship political commissars and further define their roles,
COSCO Shipping’s Leading Party Group released measures such as “Several Opinions on Strengthening the Construction of
Ship Political Commissars Under the New Situation.”59 While there is limited information made public on this guidance,
descriptions indicate it provided more specific requirements for the ship political commissar system.

To fix personnel work quality issues, the talent development arm of COSCO, COSCO Shipping Maritime University, launched
a three-year training program for all ship political commissars on September 1, 2020. This would be conducted at the
newly built campus in Qingdao and reportedly received unprecedented levels of attention by senior company leaders.
Twenty courses were held for groups of political commissars for one month, during which they were strictly evaluated and
ranked to identify and address poor performers. This was a closed, military-style course with individuals marching in
navy-like uniforms. Political commissars learned methods to resolve problems in Party building aboard COSCO ships,
providing more comprehensive training content than they had previously received.

The objective was to improve the overall quality of ship political commissars by addressing identified shortcomings and
fixing problems that can negatively impact crew effectiveness. Understanding discipline and law was a key module in
their education, where participants learned to see the “red lines” and pitfalls in ship operations using case studies.
Completing the mission to train all ship political commissars on November 21, 2023, the envisioned return for COSCO was
to be a force of commissars that can serve as frontline leaders of the nation’s merchant crews, enhancing the shipping
industry’s ability to serve the nation through their leadership in the ship Party branch structure.60

[Image: Missing image]
Exhibit 2: COSCO Chairman and head of the COSCO Party School Wang Haimin leads a symposium with six ship political
commissar representatives taking part in the first round of training.61

COSCO’s three-year training program also enabled the company to strengthen and solidify the institutionalization of the
ship political commissar training system. The drafting of training and education materials, data collection, and
discovery of best practices has produced a series of guidelines, standards, and rules for evaluation of this training.
Recordkeeping of political commissar performance during the training program also factored into their future prospective
career development.62

In addition to training all existing political commissars, new sources of personnel from within the company would be
retrained and temporarily reassigned to bolster the political commissar ranks. This period saw classes held for
“shore-based personnel temporarily serving as ship political commissars” (䱶የӪઈᤲ㙼㡩㡦᭯င) as well as “hybrid” ship political
commissars.

According to COSCO, this initiative was designed to create new mechanisms for developing hybrid shore-based and
shipborne talent, strengthen the development of younger ship officers, promote the building of ship Party structures,
and optimize the ranks of ship political commissars. By early 2024, the fourth annual training period for such temporary
ship political commissars would be completed at the COSCO Shipping University, providing fresh recruits to serve in the
company’s shipping fleets.63 Furthermore, personnel were drawn from the main headquarters and those of subsidiaries. By
the end of 2020, COSCO would select a total of 71 temporary ship political commissars from its headquarters and
subsidiaries to strengthen coverage.64

COSCO’s task, given by Party leadership, was to “strengthen the construction of Party branches and ship political
commissars in all aspects” to create a pool of political commissar personnel.65 Subsidiaries like COSCO Shipping Lines,
the international container shipping branch of COSCO, would combine traditional sources of ship political commissars
with new sources of personnel. In 2021, it described selecting 68 outstanding former military personnel to take up
political commissar posts and supplementing them with 28 temporary commissars chosen from company staff.66 COSCO’s
multi-pronged approach would likely achieve a modest strengthening of the ship political commissar force across its
different shipping sectors. However, the extent of this growth is difficult to verify. As noted previously, the total
number of COSCO ship political commissars had dropped to over 1,000 in 2021 and there are no updated figures publicly
given after the launch of COSCO’s program to improve the ship political commissar system. Improvements in political
commissar work performance is even harder to verify without extensive interviews and surveys of company officials and
the personnel serving aboard PRC ships.

[Image: Missing image]
Exhibit 3: A class of reserve ship political commissars receive training in November 2020. This involved retraining
other ship management posts (engineers, officers, etc.) to obtain the skills needed in ship political commissar work.67

The last several years also saw a surge in demand for COSCO’s ship political commissars due to the COVID-19 Pandemic. At
that time, a number of temporary political commissars were recruited from shore-based positions and underwent two months
of concentrated training before riding along other ship political commissars at sea as trainee commissars. The
challenges strict anti-Covid measures would impose on crews made boosting the ranks of onboard crew managers—the primary
role of the political commissar—an important mission assigned by company leadership. Since company rules restricted
debarkation and provisioning in foreign ports, their task was to help crews deal with the long-term inability to go
ashore and improve life conditions through activities and food preparation aboard vessels. Preventing the spread of
Covid by implementing a regime of testing and control also became an important duty for ship political commissars.68

[Image: Missing image]
Exhibit 4: Liu Ningyu was retrained with a group of 70 other temporary ship political commissars throughout 2020 to
begin their assignments aboard COSCO ships. Liu was assigned to serve aboard the CS SALUBRITY, a 180,000-ton ultra-large
bulk carrier that primarily transports coal and iron ore.69

Maintaining stability in the merchant fleets would be critical during the pandemic. One temporary ship political
commissar serving on a very large crude carrier would describe, “as the main force in ensuring stable and smooth flow of
domestic and international logistics supply chains, ships are not only the front line of [COSCO Shipping] Group’s
production and operations, but also the front line of epidemic prevention and control.” Ship Party branches were tasked
with communicating information and supervising the implementation of and adherence to pandemic control measures. Members
of the ship Party branch carried out the bulk of testing, cleaning, and monitoring work. Critically, ship political
commissars counseled and guided crew members during difficult times, building psychological files on individuals and
reporting issues to company management. Through encouragement, communication, propaganda, and cultural activities, the
commissars reportedly helped calm the shipboard atmosphere, stabilize and unite crews, and execute the Party’s
guidance.70 During such times of crisis, the political commissars were a tool for instilling stability and discipline.

# National Security Responsibilities

The merchant marine is required by law to provide support for the military and support economic development and national
security. 71 Like many militaries, the PLA relies on civilian support to enhance its logistics capacity and provide
supporting functions. PRC shipping companies have long provided support for miliary operations and other nationally
important tasks.

These include supporting overseas evacuation of PRC nationals, providing transportation services to PLA forces,
supporting Belt and Road Initiative projects, opening arctic navigational routes, and many other tasks. The system of
ship Party branches and ship political commissars are an important support and guarantee for crew leadership during such
challenging tasks and ensures they are aligned with Party guidance.72 For example, the COSCO containership TIAN FU HE
LUN (ཙ⾿⋣䖞) evacuated 559 personnel from Libya in 2011 during its return voyage from Europe. Upon receiving orders from
COSCO headquarters dispatch at the behest of the Central Government, the ship political commissar had a significant role
in supporting planning and execution of the mission, and more importantly, ensuring order, safety, and provisioning
during the sudden embarkation of hundreds of passengers on a ship designed to carry only 24 crew.73

[Image: Missing image]
Exhibit 5: COSCO containership TIAN FU HE LUN’s captain (center-left) and political commissar (center-right) shown with
crew and evacuees during the 2011 Libya operation.74

In recent documented PLA exercises, extensive COSCO and China Merchants Group participation raises questions on how
these ships, the leadership structure on board through the Party branch, and their crews interact with the military and
what arrangements facilitate that interaction.75

While much is unknown, there are some clues that suggest an important role for ship political commissars to support
mobilization and manage militia organizations aboard ships. For example, a job advertisement posted in 2011 to fill 40
to 60 ship political commissar positions in China Shipping Group included “militia armed work” among the post’s
responsibilities, whereby they would be responsible for leading the construction of militia organizations.76 The militia
comprise personnel drawn from society and enterprises and organized into military formations that are official
components of the PRC armed forces and act as a reserve and assistant to the PLA. They are jointly organized and managed
by the military and government and can be mobilized under military command to carry out combat readiness, non-war
military operations, and defensive combat operations.77 The maritime militia are a subset of the national militia that
are trained to operate at sea in support of PRC maritime objectives and national security. Within shipping companies,
personnel are trained and organized into militia transport units (≁ޥ䘀䗃࠶䱏), leveraging existing commercial capabilities
for government or military use.78

Party branches and their cadres are essential tools to ensure militia or general crew personnel are responsive to
military authorities when tasked for missions or training. Consistent with other requirements for Party control of the
armed forces, Party branches provide core organizational leadership for implementing training, conducting political
education, maintaining discipline, and ensuring mental and organizational readiness of personnel.79 Compared to fishing
industry-based Maritime Militia units, organizational dynamics are likely quite different aboard oceangoing merchant
ships. State-owned shipping companies are far more centralized, possess greater organizational and material resources,
and offer higher levels of sailor professionalism. Having a robust link to the Party-state at the grassroots levels may
enhance the availability of resources and assets to the military.

Fundamentally, the ship Party branch and its political commissar are rooted in the PLA’s tradition of “building the
Party branch at the company level” and the military’s political work system.80 In the words of one PLA Air Force veteran
pilot who later became a ship political commissar, the roles of the position are equivalent to a “political instructor
in a [military] unit” (⴨ᖃҾ䜘䱏Ⲵᤷሬઈ), referring to the military-style of management conducted aboard PRC merchant ships.81

A political instructor is the political officer in charge of a company-sized PLA unit, equal in authority to the
company’s commanding officer. Despite the vastly different nature of their work, the functions of ship political
commissars and political officers in the PLA are quite similar. Both fulfill responsibilities in maintaining discipline,
conducting political education, attending to morale and the needs of personnel, and other leadership roles.82

Ship political commissars have largely been recruited from PLA political officers since the position was created because
of their leadership skills, military experience, and political loyalty. For example, one former PLA officer recounted
their experience conducting an evacuation mission of PRC nationals from South Yemen in 1986. Serving as ship political
commissar leading the Party branch and in coordination with the ship’s captain, he credits his military background in
benefiting mission organization and planning, successfully evacuating over 400 personnel.83 Today, COSCO job recruiting
advertisements continue to require hiring of battalion-grade PLA officers that were commanding officers of grassroots
units with experience leading troops. These positions span all sectors such as containerships, tankers, bulk cargo
carriers, special ships, and others.84

# A Special Case for Ferries

RO-RO ships, such as passenger ferries represent a special case in the ship political commissar system. This is due to
the services they provide in support of PLA forces. One prominent example is Bohai Ferry Group (⑔⎧䖞⑑), which operates
ten large RO-RO passenger ferries running routes across the Bohai Gulf between Shandong and Liaoning Provinces.85 While
these are oceangoing vessels, they are typically not engaged in international voyages and usually remain close to the
PRC coast. The company extensively supports PRC national defense needs by providing transportation services to PLA
forces. To facilitate such support, the company has also organized its ships into a transport group (⎧䘀བྷ䱏) as part of
the Strategic Projection Support Forces, civilian-based forces meant to provide “force projection and logistics support
in diversified military missions…”86 For more than 15 years, the company, to much public acclaim, has made support for
national defense a priority in its shipbuilding and design, personnel recruitment and training, and annual operational
planning. According to official news, it has striven to achieve “the seamless integration of production and operations
management with the management of military transportation.”87

The military background of key personnel, including ferry political commissars and the rest of the crew is an essential
component of the company’s goals of supporting the military. All of the company’s ship political commissars are former
military officers, reporting that over 40 regimental or battalion-grade military officers had joined the ranks in 2019.
The company also reports recruiting large numbers of former military personnel for all other positions aboard these
ferries and implementing a militarized system of management involving regular military training sessions, including
closed training sessions with military units. One report states military units send personnel to provide 40 or more
training hours for company personnel to improve their emergency support capabilities in military transportation. This
management system is closely linked with the company’s military organization, designed to interface with the PLA. Party
Secretary and general manager of Bohai Ferry Group Yu Xinjian explained in 2019 “I serve as political commissar of the
transport group and the company’s executive vice president serves as its commander. We have also set up the transport
group office, political department, liaison department, information support department, and other organs to support the
front and facilitate a prompt integration with the military and receive tasking.”88 This PLA-style dual-command
structure of a political commissar and commander, enforces Party control of the company’s key assets and ensures their
availability to the military when needed. According to the political commissar of the BO HAI CUI ZHU, a 36,000-ton RO-RO
passenger ferry, the company’s ferries are under a “dual command system” (ৼ䮯ࡦ(, a departure from the Captain
Responsibility System in most shipping companies.89 Another report states this system “maintains military unit structure
in vessel management” (儸儵䪠䌅Ờ㈀ᶅ忧攞䖃ⷹℵ).90 This likely portends a much stronger leadership role for the ship political
commissar aboard these ferries.

With national defense requirements permeating the company’s leadership, organization, personnel, and ship design, the
company is an exemplar of military-civilian fusion. Indeed, Bohai Ferry Group’s ferries have extensively participated in
major PLA maritime transportation exercises over the past several years.91 Furthermore, modifications have indicated a
direct amphibious combat support role, whereby PLA amphibious assault forces train to conduct their landing operations
directly using some of the company’s ferries.92

More intensive involvement in military operations likely place greater requirements on crew management, discipline, and
operational safety, a role greatly suited to the ship political commissar. The embarkation of large numbers of military
personnel, equipment, and materials would necessarily require the focused attention of a ship political commissar that
can manage cabin spaces, the mess hall, and activities taking place on board.

Other ferry operators also have the ship political commissar system in place and provide support to the military. COSCO
Shipping Ferry Co., Ltd., (ѝ䘌⎧䘀ᇒ䘀ᴹ䲀ޜਨ) a COSCO subsidiary that operates twelve large ferries that also regularly run
routes across the Bohai Gulf.93 COSCO Shipping Ferry similarly has organized its ferries into a transport group and
provides significant direct transportation support for PLA forces.94 The company’s organizational structure contains a
People’s Armed Forces Department, which would be responsible for working with the PLA in managing mobilization of the
vessels and militia crewmembers.95 The individual ship Party branch, led by the ship political commissar, acts as an
important organizational backbone for crew organization and management, as well as management of the militia.96

The role of the ship political commissar aboard RO-RO ferries is uniquely important, but much remains unknown. The
extent of their involvement beyond the management of crew and the maintenance of shipboard order is unknown. It is also
unclear how widespread militia organizations are in RO-RO ferry companies and whose control they fall under.
Nonetheless, having former military officers serving in a capacity to assert political control and discipline and help
captains ensure the vessel is available to carry out military or national tasks is likely the desired goal. The Party
Branch on board serves as an important guarantee of this.

# Conclusion

PRC state-owned shipping widely implements a system of ship Party branches and assigned ship political commissars aboard
its oceangoing merchant fleet. This system is framed as an essential organizational and leadership guarantee for
asserting Party control over the nationally strategic shipping industries. It draws on a historical arrangement that has
continued since the founding of the PRC and is further emphasized in the current political climate of enhancing
political leadership over key industries and state-owned enterprises. Despite the continued presence of ship political
commissars aboard PRC global shipping operations, it remains an understudied and potentially misunderstood subject.

While the core functions of a ship political commissar are to establish the ship Party branch and act as a
representative of the Party-State and the second most senior officer aboard a ship, the position entails many other
supporting functions. These include promoting company goals for efficiency and work safety, educating crew members on
political ideology and policies and regulations, ensuring ship security, assisting the captain in crew and departmental
management and conflict resolution, supporting logistics functions, and many other responsibilities. Since switching to
the “Captain Responsibility System,” ship political commissars no longer exercise command over vessels and instead carry
out their work in support of the captain and the crew.

The position’s authority and prestige has declined since the 1980s amid societal changes and the imperative for
companies to focus on commercial profitability and market competition. These goals and inherent quality issues in the
ranks of political commissars at times stand in the way of recent initiatives to strengthen the quality of Party
management and grassroots organization in state-run shipping.

The ship political commissar has an important leadership and supporting role when ships are tasked to carry out missions
of national significance or in support of the military. The position’s origins come from military tradition and most
ship political commissars are former military officers. The political commissar’s influence and authority with the crew
can help maintain work discipline during challenging situations. In some sectors, such as RO-RO ferry operators, the
position may have a greater role in providing support to the military, perhaps through management of militia
organizations. While the potential national security roles of the political commissar are not fully known, they are
nonetheless an important Party-state presence that can enforce discipline and compliance aboard ships.

This report aims to serve as an update to 2003 book The Political Commissar and His Shipmates – Transformation of the
Commissar’s Role on Chinese Ships by Zhao Minghua, Shi Xiuyin, and Feng Tongqing. The authors’ original research and
field work has been invaluable in the research of this report. The unique ship political commissar system in PRC
shipping deserves an examination in the years since the China joined the World Trade Organization. In particular, the
PRC’s strategy to become a maritime power has placed great importance on the strategic role of its maritime shipping
industries. The primacy of politics in the Xi Jinping era has further highlighted the Party’s role within state-run
shipping and has resulted in efforts to revitalize the ship political commissar system in the largest shipping
conglomerate, COSCO Shipping. Most importantly and not sufficiently raised in this report, international actors such as
shipping companies, international port operators, and regulatory and law enforcement authorities can all benefit from a
deeper understanding of PRC ship political commissars that sail into foreign ports globally.

# About the Author

Conor M. Kennedy is an assistant professor at the U.S. Naval War College’s China Maritime Studies Institute. His
research focuses on the People's Republic of China’s maritime and military development. He holds an M.A. in
international studies from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (Hopkins - Nanjing Center), and
two B.A. degrees in Political Science and Chinese Language from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. He was
recipient of the National Security Education Program’s David L. Boren Fellowship to China from 2013-2014.

Opinions, conclusions, and recommendations expressed or implied within are solely those of the author(s) and do not
necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Naval War College, the Department of the Navy, the Department of Defense, or
any other U.S. government agency.