# CHINA'S VISION FOR A NEW WORLD ORDER

By Nadege Rolland

John V. Rindlaub (Chairman) Senior Managing Director and Head of Pacific Northwest Market East West Bank Thomas W.
Albrecht Partner (Ret.) Sidley Austin LLP Dennis Blair Chairman Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA U.S. Navy (Ret.) Maria
Livanos Cattai Secretary General (Ret.) International Chamber of Commerce George Davidson (Vice Chairman) Vice Chairman,
M&A, Asia-Pacific (Ret.) HSBC Holdings plc Norman D. Dicks Senior Policy Advisor Van Ness Feldman LLP Richard J. Ellings
President Emeritus and Counselor NBR Kurt Glaubitz Global Media Relations Manager Chevron Corporation

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th colspan="3"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Charles W. Boustany Jr.</td><td>Thomas B.
Fargo</td><td>Jonathan W. Greenert</td></tr><tr><td>U.S. House of Representatives (Ret.)</td><td>U.S. Navy
(Ret.)</td><td>John M. Shalikashvili Chair in National Security Studies</td></tr><tr><td>Norman D. Dicks</td><td>Aaron
L. Friedberg</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>U.S. House of Representatives (Ret.)</td><td>Princeton University</td><td>Joseph
Lieberman</td></tr><tr><td>Richard J. Ellings</td><td>Slade Gorton</td><td>U.S. Senate
(Ret.)</td></tr><tr><td>NBR</td><td>U.S. Senate (Ret.)</td><td>Ashley J. Tellis<br>Carnegie Endowment
for<br>International Peace</td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

Michael Armacost Stanford University Rodney Bindon Bindon and Associates Nicholas Eberstadt American Enterprise
Institute Karl Eikenberry Stanford University Donald Emmerson Stanford University Lee Hamilton Indiana University
Stephen Hanson College of William and Mary Harry Harding University of Virginia Donald Hellmann University of Washington
Robert J. Herbold The Herbold Group, LLC

# CHINA'S VISION FOR A NEW WORLD ORDER

Nadège Rolland

The NBR Special Report provides access to current research on special topics conducted by the world’s leading experts in
Asian affairs. The views expressed in these reports are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of
other NBR research associates or institutions that support NBR.

The National Bureau of Asian Research is a nonprofit, nonpartisan research institution dedicated to informing and
strengthening policy. NBR conducts advanced independent research on strategic, political, economic, globalization,
health, and energy issues affecting U.S. relations with Asia. Drawing upon an extensive network of the world’s leading
specialists and leveraging the latest technology, NBR bridges the academic, business, and policy arenas. The institution
disseminates its research through briefings, publications, conferences, Congressional testimony, and email forums, and
by collaborating with leading institutions worldwide. NBR also provides exceptional internship opportunities to graduate
and undergraduate students for the purpose of attracting and training the next generation of Asia specialists. NBR was
started in 1989 with a major grant from the Henry M. Jackson Foundation.

Funding for NBR’s research and publications comes from foundations, corporations, individuals, the U.S. government, and
from NBR itself. NBR does not conduct proprietary or classified research. The organization undertakes contract work for
government and private\-sector organizations only when NBR can maintain the right to publish findings from such work.

To download issues of the NBR Special Report, please visit the NBR website http://www.nbr.org.

This report may be reproduced for personal use. Otherwise, the NBR Special Report may not be reproduced in full without
the written permission of NBR. When information from NBR publications is cited or quoted, please cite the author and The
National Bureau of Asian Research.

This is the eighty-third NBR Special Report.

# CHINA'S VISION FOR A NEW WORLD ORDER

TABLE OF CONTENTS

V Foreword

3 Introduction

7 Speaking Rights and Discourse Power

13 The Critique of the Existing International Order

17 Ideational Foundations

25 Brewing a Chinese Worldview

35 Altering the World

47 China's Vision for a New World Order: A Partial, Loose, and Malleable Hegemony

49 Conclusion

52 Appendix

Like all fast-rising powers, the People's Republic of China seeks to reshape the international system in a way that
reflects both its values and interests, aligning institutions. course, this kind of switching is "not as simple as
switching TV channels," explains Chen Shuguang, but rather is a protracted process. According to Chen, China and the
United States entered the switching cycle in 2008, and the final completion of the process will occur in the mid-21st
century:

Most of the current efforts to grasp China's vision for a future world order tend to infer the leadership's ambitions
based on observations about the country's external behavior. This project instead gives priority to uncovering China's
vision from the "inside out." To understand Chinese leaders' emerging vision for a new order, it is essential not just
to look at what China does externally, or advertises via its official pronouncements, but to grasp how the Chinese
elites think about the future system they wish to see emerge on their own terms.

This report constitutes the first phase of NBR’s two\-year project “China’s Vision for a New Regional and Global Order.”
It is based on extensive research that focused on Chinese official statements and scholarly works and private
discussions with Chinese experts, in addition to secondary sources from leading academics in the field. The second phase
of the project will take a more diversified approach. In addition to Chinese sources, it will include primary and
secondary sources from relevant regional actors in order to understand how China’s vision may be implemented in
practical terms in specific geographic and functional areas. The project’s research findings from both phases will serve
to generate relevant policy recommendations for U.S. decision\-makers.

Both the author and NBR would like to express their immense gratitude to the Carnegie Corporation of New York for its
inspiring encouragement and unique commitment to support original research in the field of international studies. This
project could not have materialized without its generous sponsorship.

The author wishes to thank Jacqueline Deal, Roy Kamphausen, Daniel Markey, William McCahill, and John S. Van Oudenaren
for their helpful comments on the manuscript. She would also like to thank Rachel Bernstein, Joseph Michaels, and Aimée
Tat for their assistance in compiling research materials and putting together the lexicon included in the appendix to
this report. The author alone is responsible for any errors of fact or interpretation that persist.

# China's Vision for a New World Order

Nadège Rolland

NADÈGE ROLLAND is Senior Fellow for Political and Security Affairs at the National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR). She
is the author of China’s Eurasian Century? Political and Strategic Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative (2017).
She can be reached at <nrolland@nbr.org>.

# EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This is a note on the work of the University of Virginia Indiana University Harry Harding College of William and Mary
Harry Harding University of Virginia Donald Hellmann University of Washington Robert J. Herbold The Herbold Group, LLC

# MAIN ARGUMENT

Under Xi Jinping, China has become more vocal about its dissatisfaction with the existing international order. Whereas
its posture used to be mostly defensive, it has recently engaged in a more forward-leaning, assertive effort to reshape
the system. Xi is confident in China's growing material power but is aware that the country still lacks "discourse
power"—the ability to exert influence over the formulations and ideas that underpin the international order. Although
the Chinese leadership has mobilized intellectual resources to fill this gap, it has not explicitly laid out an
alternative vision of what the world should look like. However, a close reading of ongoing internal discussions and
debates suggests that China's vision for a future system under its helm draws inspiration from traditional Chinese
thought and past historical experiences. The collective intellectual effort reflects a yearning for partial hegemony,
loosely exercised over large portions of the "global South"—a space that would be free from Western influence and purged
of liberal ideals. The contours of this new system would not be traced along precise geographic or ideological lines but
be defined by the degree of deference that those within China's sphere of influence are willing to offer Beijing.

# POLICY IMPLICATIONS

- The Chinese leadership's efforts to increase China's discourse power should not be dismissed or misconstrued as mere
propaganda or empty slogans. Rather, they should be seen as evidence of the leadership's determination to alter the
norms that underpin existing institutions and put in place the building blocks of a new international system coveted by
the Chinese Communist Party.

- The Chinese leadership's critique of the existing international order reveals its unswerving objection to the values
on which this order has been built. At stake is not only the predominant position of the U.S. in the current system but
more importantly the potential erosion of fundamental human rights, freedom of thought and expression, and
self-government around the world.

- The Chinese Communist Party seems to envision a new world order in which China enjoys only partial hegemony rather
than rules the world. Nonetheless, a dual-centered system could eventually materialize in which emerging and developing
countries may yet again become the battleground for global influence among great powers.

here is something inherently problematic about the topic of this study. How is "world order" defined? What "China" are
we discussing? How is it even possible to grasp something as abstract as a "vision"? The answers are not obvious, and
the task is arduous. Yet, it is a necessary one.

In Xi Jinping's "new era," the Chinese leadership's ambitions to have a greater impact on the course of international
affairs have become clearer and more purposeful. In his remarks at the 19th Party Congress in October 2017, Xi indicated
his eagerness to build China into a "global leader in terms of composite national strength and international influence."
In practice, that influence is already exercised increasingly to shape—and sometimes to challenge—aspects of the
existing international system, a trend that most international observers would see as natural for a rising power.

What kind of world would the Chinese leadership like to see emerge? China is "harboring long-term designs to rewrite the
existing global order," declared then U.S. secretary of defense James Mattis in 2018: "The Ming dynasty appears to be
their model, albeit in a more muscular manner, demanding other nations become tribute states, kowtowing to Beijing."² It
is too early to tell whether this assessment of Beijing's ambitions is correct. But it would be a mistake to wait and
see whether the future order will be the modern reincarnation of a Sinocentric empire, albeit one ruled by the general
secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and his cadres instead of the son of heaven and his mandarins. Given the
stakes, waiting for the articulation of new norms, rules, principles, and values to be fully completed and carved on the
UN building would be unwise. Accurately describing Beijing's vision for a new world order is complicated by the fact
that, beyond a set of cryptic or bland formulations, the Chinese leadership does not spell out explicitly what its
vision is. For fear of fueling potential counter-responses to its ambitions and international suspicions about its
aspirations—often shorthand in Chinese discourse with the "so-called China threat theory" label (suowei Zhongguo
weixielun)—the party-state has for decades mobilized large-scale propaganda efforts and global influence campaigns to
dispel and discredit any hint at the possibility that China's rise might negatively affect the international system.³

The CCP has not frankly described the world it wants, but it has given clues—small white pebbles on a sinuous track that
domestic audiences and outside observers can identify, decrypt, and interpret. Taken together, the party's official
pronouncements and Chinese intellectuals' commentaries form a relatively coherent structure that points to the direction
Beijing would like to take and allow outside observers to glimpse a vision that is being carefully crafted and
constantly refined. Grasping their meaning is a laborious task, one akin to "interpreting nonexistent inscriptions in
invisible ink on a blank page," to use Simon Leys's inimitably witty formulation.⁴ The analyst who wishes to gather
information through such a process, Leys explained, "must negotiate three hurdles of thickening thorniness": first,
understanding the Chinese language; second, "absorb[ing] industrial quantities" of Communist literature while keeping
"his wits sharp and keen" and being ready to "pounce upon those rare items of significance that lie buried under mountains of clichés"; and third, "crack[ing] the code of

This study is an attempt to describe the Chinese leadership's vision for a new international order. The nature of the
topic under examination inevitably entails a high degree of abstraction. Because the "vision" is still in the process of
being developed and articulated, there are very few tangible reference points visible to outside observers. In Xi's
China, information flows are monitored and controlled even more tightly than under his immediate predecessors. It
remains impossible to gain access to the core leadership's thoughts on major political issues, either through meetings
with top political officials or via access to internal documents. The domestic political climate has also considerably
reduced the possibility of genuine and open exchanges between Chinese scholars and their foreign counterparts. Many of
these scholars are reluctant to talk on record, or even to participate in international workshops. Restrictions on
academic expression are also noticeable in Chinese scholars' published writings, many of which prudently toe the
official line and offer little but a clever repetition of the leadership's talking points. In such a constricted and
opaque environment, assessing the relative authority and influence of one Chinese scholar's argument over another's is a
difficult task.

Some authors cited in this report are well-known in the West and, according to some reports, well-connected to the
Chinese leadership. Others can be categorized as prominent scholars due to their institutional affiliation, their rank
or seniority, and the reputation of the outlet where their papers are published. Finally, some scholars cited may not
appear to belong in either of these two categories but have been awarded research grants by the National Social Science
Fund of China. If the National Planning Office of Philosophy and Social Sciences deems their work worthy of financial
support, this fact indicates that their ideas are taken seriously within the system.

These caveats suggest that there is plenty of room left for interpretation on the part of outside observers. The account
I offer in this report does not pretend to give an absolute and definitive view of China's vision of a new world order,
but rather attempts to provide a glimpse of the direction that internal discussions appear to be taking.

China's re-ascendance to the top of the pyramid of world power seems a more pressing goal under Xi than ever before. The
regime's growing impatience about the gap between China's material power and its authority in and control over
international affairs is palpable. Beijing exudes confidence about the material foundations of its power. Yet the party
is also aware of its lack of ideational appeal as it8, and the final completion of the process will occur in the
mid\-21st century:

Surprisingly, though, what comes out of China's current exercise in collective imagination is not a glittering,
positive, forward-looking, enticing vision but mostly a collection of lamentations and grievances about the existing order. In 2002, Jiang Zemin already bemoaned the "old international political and economic
order, which is unfair and has to be changed fundamentally."6 China's criticism of the U.S.-led world order has only
grown stronger and more pointed over the years. In 2016, for example, senior diplomat Fu Ying compared it to an old suit
that no longer fits.7 The discontent with the current order, deemed "unfair and unreasonable," is unambiguous. Less
obvious is exactly how Beijing proposes to redress its wrongs and make the world order more fair and reasonable. The
closer one gets to the inklings of an affirmative vision, the more elliptical and deceptive the discourse becomes. One
has to weed through a litany of incantatory phrases such as amity,incerity, mutual benefit, wide consultation, joint
contribution, shared benefits, mutual understanding, and a shared future of mankind, as well as the party's inevitable
claims that peacefulness is in the Chinese DNA, to get a better sense of the message that is implicitly conveyed. And
even then, there is still a lot that cannot be discerned from the outside looking in.

Imagining the future world order is a collective effort undertaken by the CCP and Chinese intellectuals. Building a new
international system with a Chinese perspective is a priority that the political leadership has assigned to Chinese
scholars, political scientists, and philosophers. Their debates do not exclusively belong to the academic and
theoretical realm; they are still guided and determined by political imperatives and have concrete applications for
China's diplomatic practice. In no uncertain terms, the party expects them to provide the theoretical foundations of a
new world order, something akin to and as compelling as the theory of democratic peace that lies at the core of the
existing liberal international order—the principles and values of which the party abhors and dreads. Chinese
intellectual and political imaginations converge around the rejection of Western predominance and are busily seeking a
non-Western paradigm, a Sinicized value system aligned and coherent with the CCP's identity, ideology, and interests
that could also have some broader applicability. The new "Chinese" paradigm,⁸ based on Chinese "wisdom" and cultural
"excellence," needs to serve the regime domestically, playing to a sense of national pride and civilizational hubris in
order to bolster the leadership's legitimacy at home and strengthen its international influence. Externally, this is
done mainly by helping provide a soft pulp of peacefulness and benign intentions relentlessly applied on top of—though
barely concealing—a hard core that is mostly about the party's unhampered power and aura.⁹

Beyond the CCP's self-strengthening domestically and abroad, what purpose does the vision serve? To whom is it supposed
to appeal? Who would be eager to endorse Beijing's rejection of what it describes as "so-called universal values" and
become a member of a "community of destiny" that lets its members choose their development paths without questioning
their governance methods? Who would be content to see Western influence over international affairs decline? The tunes
Beijing plays on the international stage are broadcast to an audience that it hopes to entice along the Silk Road
corridors with promises of connectivity, prosperity, and progress. As in earlier days of the global ambitions of the
People's Republic of China (PRC), Beijing has once again identified the developing world as the forefront of its struggle against the hegemonic forces that stand in the way of its own
accession to the paramount power position.

In the Chinese leadership's eyes, shaping the world is essentially about making sure that the international system
accommodates the CCP's ambitions for power as well as its anxieties about survival. Beijing's vision for a new
international order is an outward extension of what the party wants to secure (its perpetual rule and unchallenged
power) and what it rejects as existential threats (democratic ideals and universal values). For fear of international
counter-responses, the CCP appears reluctant to publicly acknowledge that its efforts to "move closer to the world's
center stage" and to "guide the reform" of the international order in a "fairer and more reasonable" direction are in
reality an attempt to preempt and resist the transformative effects of liberalism and to make the world safer for its
authoritarian model.¹⁰ Notwithstanding the sophisticated intellectual exercise and public campaign that claims that all
China has in mind is the future peace and prosperity of mankind,¹¹ the party's existential obligation to perpetuate its
rule is what primarily creates the imperative to alter the world in which it operates.¹²

Beyond the last decade, official speeches have increasingly indicated's dissatisfaction with traditional current global
governance system. The complaint is not new. What has mostly changed is the leadership's self-confidence that conditions
are now ripe for China not only to be a critic and a dissenter within the existing framework of international order but
also to push more proactively for its own more proactively for its own alternative vision.

The first half of this report lays out the intellectual and ideological underpinnings that inform the Chinese elite's
worldview, which requires a relatively high level of abstraction. The second half examines the process of transition
from thought into concrete policymaking. The report is divided into six sections. The first one underlines the
importance of discourse in Beijing's eyes: whoever controls the narrative and formulates the norms and concepts, as well
as the theoretical underpinnings of thought, can define the contours of a new order. The second section then examines
Beijing's critique of the existing order, and the third section studies the ideational foundations within which the CCP is shaping its own image. The idiosyncratic amalgam of Chinese exceptionalism combined
with selected elements of Marxism-Leninism and traditional culture provides the framework through which the leadership
projects its vision for a new order. This is also the framework that guides Chinese public intellectuals and scholars,
who have been asked to contribute to the crafting of the leadership's vision, as described in section four. The
subsequent section identifies and deciphers the elements of official discourse and diplomatic practice that have already
emerged and through which Beijing attempts to reshape the world according to its wishes. The concluding section
tentatively describes what Beijing's desired outcome could look like.

# Speaking Rights and Discourse Power

# Whoever Rules the Words Rules the World

Over the last decade, one phrase in particular has encapsulated both China's increased frustration about its inadequate
international status and influence and its growing desire to have an impact on the course of international affairs.
Huayuquan, sometimes appearing as guoji huayuquan, which can be translated respectively as "speaking rights"the myth of
[the] so-called 'China threat.'"^{121} What the Chinese literature also frequently refers to as the "so-called China threat.""

What huayuquan exactly means and encapsulates has evolved over time, but three characteristics are central to how
Chinese intellectuals describe it. First, the concept is rooted in material power, and a country's comprehensive
national power would be incomplete without it. Second, Beijing believes that huayuquan has been used by the West to
dominate the international system and the world order. Words are not simply instruments of communication used to
facilitate exchanges and discussions; they convey concepts, ideals, and values that are the foundational basis for the
norms on which the international architecture is built and in which diverse cultures and civilizations coexist on the
basis of equality.

But what does Beijing have to offer for the future of mankind? The party-state has exhorted China's intellectual elites
to help manufacture and mold a set of ideas and concepts that reflect its vision for what a future world order should
look like. As outside observers examine the work of the intellectuals who are responsible for carrying out this mission,
they can glimpse a picture that is still incomplete, but whose contours are slowly emerging.

In the context of Chinese politics, words are of profound importance. The CCP's jargon, what Perry Link describes as a
"ritualized language," has long been deliberately developed as a means to control discourse within China itself.¹⁴ It is
a tool "used by the Party, its propaganda organs, the media and educators to shape (and circumscribe) the way people
express themselves in the public (and eventually private) sphere."¹⁵ "By proscribing some formulations and prescribing
others," CCP officials "set out to regulate what is being said and what is being written—and by extension what is being done." $^{16}$ The lexicon of catchphrases used by the party-state (see the Appendix) may sometimes sound
ungainly to the foreign ear, but they are neither static nor meaningless—even if their actual content may occasionally
evolve over time. Nor are these words irrelevant. Instead, they are “intimately connected with politics, ideas, and the
projection of power.” $^{17}$ Vocabularies and catchphrases “can be seen as political signals or signposts,” and even
the “subtlest of changes to the lexicon” can indicate significant shifts within China’s politics. $^{18}$

The same applies to the formulations that Beijing increasingly uses to assert its guiding role on the international
stage, shape the conversation, and eventually reform the system of governance by reframing prevailing norms. As is true
at home, the concepts put forward by the party-state for foreign consumption contribute to defining the "conceptual
horizon of the people who adopt them."19

# Ever-Changing Connotations

Before the early 1990s, "huayuquan" never appeared in Chinese publications. The meteoric rise in the use of the phrase
since then illustrates its contemporary importance.$^{20}$ Chinese scholars' interest in the concept increased
especially after 2008, but its connotation has evolved drastically since 2013.$^{21}$

Around 2008, Chinese authors started to describe huayuquan in the context of international "distorted reports" related
to the March 2008 Tibetan uprising and the incidents during the Olympic torch relay.²² At this time, the phrase clearly
belonged to the realm of propaganda work. It was sometimes used to describe foreign political influence and subversion
or other countries' ability to "infiltrate the international community" through official diplomacy and "other channels"
such as people-to-people contacts, cultural exchanges, and media communication, with the objective of "making others
voluntarily accept and identify with certain concepts, values, and ideologies."²³ For Zhang Guozuo, director of the
National Planning Office for Philosophy and Social Sciences, the concept has a clear ideological component. After 1945,
the "struggle between the East and the West for huayuquan mainly manifested itself as a struggle for ideological
dominance." The West's "peaceful evolution' strategic planners" went on a "discourse offensive," setting up transmission
mechanisms to "suppress or subvert the political power of socialist and developing countries" by "broadcasting
continuously" Western values, political opinions, and lifestyles to local audiences.²⁴ According to Zhang, this Western
discourse offensive, together with Moscow's abandonment of its "dominant ideological position," helps explain the Soviet Union's disintegration and the drastic subsequent changes
in Eastern Europe:

After the regime lost its huayuquan, no one spoke for it and no one defended it. It inevitably lost the support of its
people. Disintegration became an irreversible trend. Such facts tell us that in its modern sense, huayuquan not only
emphasizes the ability to speak, but refers to the ideological dominance related to the survival of the country.$^{25}$

The CCP leadership was initially on the defensive, trying to reduce the potential infiltration of foreign ideological
discourse within China. Yet it also increasingly set about using its own huayuquan to influence foreign perceptions of
China's rise in an attempt to counter the "so-called China threat theory"; to push back against foreign attempts to
"contain, vilify, beat down, defame, and demonize China, thus hurting its international image"; and to deflect criticism
of its model, ideology, and value system.²⁶ "Instead of having to deal with an influx of ideas from other countries into
China," notes Mareike Ohlberg, "the Party wants to fundamentally change the conversation at the global level so as to
defend China's interests abroad and reinforce the ideological consensus at home."²⁷ As China's material strength and
confidence grew, CCP leaders became increasingly interested in reversing the balance of power in the ideational realm.
Instead of being the victim of a system in which "the West is strong while China is weak" (xi qiang wo ruo), Xi Jinping
announced at the 19th Party Congress in October 2017 that the CCP would continue to strive for China's "tremendous
transformation" into a strong country, one that is not only internationally accepted but also respected and ultimately
in a position of international influence commensurate with its economic and military might.²⁸ Initial efforts to disarm
and neutralize others' harmful huayuquan pointing at China "like swords"²⁹ thus evolved into a recognition that China
too could use this powerful instrument, shape its own discourse, formulate its own concepts, and then push them on the
international stage. In the process, the country could introduce the building blocks of what could eventually become an
alternative system, reflecting a vision for the world order that...

The year 2013 marks a turning point in this direction. According to Sun Jisheng, the leadership at this time clearly
indicated its willingness to elevate huayuquan to the level of "a national strategy and a comprehensive foreign policy."
$^{30}$ A series of important party conferences emphasized the necessity of enhancing and promoting China's huayuquan.
At the National Propaganda and Ideology Work Conference in August 2013, Xi underlined that the “propaganda, ideological and cultural front” should
“grasp the right to speak,” tell China’s stories, and spread China’s voice. $^{31}$ In September 2013, the third plenary
session of the 18th Party Congress adopted a “decision on several major issues concerning the comprehensive deepening of
reform,” which underlined the need for China to strengthen its international communication capacity, to promote its
culture throughout the world, and to build a “system of discourse for the outside world.” $^{32}$ Finally, in December
2013 the twelfth Politburo collective study on “improving the nation’s culture and soft power” again stressed the
necessity of enhancing China’s huayuquan along with the construction of an externally directed “discourse system.”
$^{33}$

# Right to Have a Say or Embodiment of Power?

In Chinese, the phrase huayuquan is inherently ambiguous: quan (权) can be understood as referring to quanli (权利), which
means rights or privilege, as well as to quanli (权力), which means power or authority. Huayuquan can therefore be
understood either as "discourse rights" or "discourse power." The phrase conveniently conveys both meanings, but
ultimately the latter sense prevails. As Zhang Zhizhou notes, some authors believe that huayuquan is "equivalent to the
English 'have a voice' or 'have a say', which is obviously inaccurate. The essence of huayuquan is not '权利' (right) but
'权力' (power). In other words, huayuquan does not refer to whether one has the right to speak, but to the use and
embodiment of power through language."34 A country's huayuquan is essentially a form of power equivalent to military
power and economic power, "with discourse as its carrier."35 Discourse power is therefore the ability to voice ideas,
concepts, propositions, and claims that are "respected and recognized by others" and, by doing so, to generate the power
needed to "change the thoughts and behaviors of others in a nonviolent and noncoercive way."36 A country's ability to
make other international actors accept—or at a minimum, not oppose—its own ideology, values, and objectives, as well as
its capacity to control the international rules and shape the international agenda, is the ultimate embodiment of
discourse power.37 It is "a crucial aspect of the competition between great powers" and a manifestation of a country's
comprehensive national power.38 In a globalized world, the competition between countries "not only centers on economic,
military power and other hard power fields, but also on soft power fields such as social systems, values, ideology, and
culture."39

Today, the West still dominates the game. Chinese scholars look to the West's discourse power with both envy and
revulsion—as a model to emulate and a success story to replicate, but also as a nemesis to defang. In this view, since
the end of World War II, the West has gradually brought its own discourse power to the center of the international
stage. By providing content, setting standards and rules, and leading the agenda of international institutions, the West
has ultimately gained total control over the definition and interpretation of norms and values and has enconced itself
as the arbiter of rights and wrongs.⁴⁰ According to Renmin University professor Wang Yiwei, the West, "represented by
the United States, monopolized the discourse power in the name of the international community, and the model became
American 'liberal capitalism' as the 'end of history.'"⁴¹ The West has created a series of economic and political
concepts, such as "market plus democracy as the highest form of human social development" or the "democratic peace
theory." These ideas are now widely accepted by the international community, but they are nothing but misleading
"myths."⁴²

In this view, behind discourse resides hard power. The reason for the dominance of Western discourse is "not its truth"
but the "absolute" political, economic, cultural, military, and diplomatic power supporting it.⁴³ Discourse power
presupposes and is derived from material power. But being economically strong does not necessarily result in a
spontaneous and commensurate increase in discourse power. According to Sun Jisheng, the U.S. economy overtook Britain's
economy in 1894, but it still took the United States over half a century to become a country with strong discourse
power.⁴⁴ During that time, the United States used all of its advantages to roll out a global strategy. In the security
arena, the United States created a system of military alliances. In the economic domain, it established the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) as preludes to
the creation of a Western economic order with the United States at the core. In the ideological realm, the United States
created Voice of America, Radio Free Europe, and the Peace Corps to promote American values and gradually disseminate
U.S. discourse power in various other areas.⁴⁵ In short, the discourse power of the United States, in combination with
its material strength, provided the basis for the construction of institutions and rules reflecting and propagating
American values—an international order in which the United States is dominant. China's own "discourse deficit," however,
puts it in a weak position because the country still lags behind and is "insufficiently prepared to break the monopoly
of Western discourse."⁴⁶ This situation, writes Central Party School professor Chen Shuguang, feels like "a Damocles
sword hanging over our head."

Although China's economy and hard power are growing, the gap between its own discourse power and that of the West is
still wide. For a long time, China was isolated from the international system, was not represented in international institutions, and thus had little discourse power. Yet, even in times of
material weakness, especially during the 1950s, China attempted to enhance its discourse power and consolidate its
international influence with concepts that wooed African, Latin American, and Asian countries, such as Mao Zedong's
theory of the three worlds and Zhou Enlai's five principles of peaceful coexistence.⁴⁷ Later, Deng Xiaoping reckoned
that conditions were still not ripe for China to take the initiative, and he instead advised the country to "hide its
light" for a few more years. Eventually, China could "become a larger political force, and the weight of its voice on
the international stage will then be different."⁴⁸

# A Priority for Xi Jinping

For some Chinese observers, the trend toward a shift in the center of gravity of world power is ongoing, and China and
the United States have already started to switch positions. Of course, this kind of switching is "not as simple as
switching TV channels," explains Chen Shuguang, but rather is a protracted process. According to Chen, China and the
United States entered the switching cycle in 2008, and the final completion of the process will occur in the mid-21st
century:

The 21st century is the century of China’s revival, and it should also be the century of the rise of China’s discourse.
The switching cycle between Washington and Beijing has begun and it is an irreversible process. The era of the U.S.
hegemony will come to an end, and the era of multipolarity led by China will begin. $^{49}$

As part of this process, Chen believes that China must break the West's discourse hegemony by creating its own "system
of discourse" and offering its own thoughts about how to solve the problems collectively faced by humanity.⁵⁰ Mastering
discourse power is a necessary step for China to "reconstruct a just and fair order in the international community and
to bring about a fair adjustment of the relations between developed and developing countries."⁵¹

Toward this end, Xi has underlined on multiple occasions the necessity for China to enhance its discourse power
internationally and build an external system of discourse. $^{52}$ His repeated guidance conveys the idea that such
power, rather than gradually emerging organically, can be manufactured. Discourse power is a form of “national heavy
machinery” $^{53}$ that is “not innate, self-appointed, or bestowed by others. It is acquired only through
self-struggle.” $^{54}$ According to one Chinese scholar, the “CCP, with Xi Jinping at its core, is the main force in
the construction of China’s international discourse power.” $^{55}$ The promotion of such power requires both a conscious effort and a multidimensional strategic design, including a stronger representation in international
institutions, innovative diplomatic practices, effective communication tools, and persuasive narratives and
content.$^{56}$ Xi has called on the party’s intellectual workers—historians, political scientists, philosophers,
scientists, economists, propagandists, and journalists—to join the fray and contribute to the creation of “new concepts,
new categories, and a new language that international society can easily understand and accept so as to guide the
direction of research and debate in the international academic community.”$^{57}$

Xi's formulations bear a striking resemblance to Politburo member and propaganda czar Li Changchun's call at a 2012
meeting on theoretical research and the development of Marxism:

It is a significant and pressing task in theoretical scientific circles to interpret China's course of development and
practices using a theoretical language system that China itself has developed; to continue to come up with innovative
and practical scientific concepts, new areas, and new expressions; and to create an academic language system of
philosophy and social sciences that has Chinese characteristics and a Chinese style.$^{58}$

More recently, Ding Yifan, the deputy director of the World Development Institute at the State Council's Development
Research Center, stated that Chinese intellectuals are "facing a very important task, that is, to build a persuasive,
causal, and internally consistent discourse system that can make others understand why China is on the right path and is
developing better."$^{59}$ In doing so, they need to make sure that the new concepts they put forward to help enhance
China's discourse.

# The Critique of the Existing International Order

Over the last decade, official speeches have increasingly indicated Beijing's dissatisfaction with the current global
governance system. The complaint is not new. What has mostly changed is the leadership's self-confidence that conditions
are now ripe for China not only to be a critic and a dissenter within the existing framework of international
order$^{61}$ but also to push more proactively for its own alternative vision.

In his discussion with Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi in December 1988, Deng Xiaoping noted that it was time to
think about "appropriate new policies to establish a new international order" and suggested the five principles of
peaceful coexistence as norms for international relations (IR) as an alternative to "hegemonism, bloc politics and
treaty organizations" that "no longer work."62 In 1988, Deng was referring to hegemonism as both Soviet and American.
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, his successors have argued that the existing international order is founded on
the hegemony of the United States and has been designed and sustained by the West to secure its interests and exploit
developing countries (including China).63

# The Existing World Order According to Beijing: "Unfair and Unreasonable"

A similar theme can be found in the more recent official critique of the existing world order as "unfair and
unreasonable" (bu gongzheng, bu heli). The trope, repeated time after time in almost every official speech and document
related to global governance, sounds rather inconsequential. Most of the time, the official rhetoric stops short of
fully explaining what it really means. But a closer study gives important indications not only about Chinese leaders'
deep concerns with the world order as it stands but also about what they would really want to see emerge instead. It is
therefore worth spending some time trying to dissect it.

One of the most candid accounts of what this expression actually means was offered by Fu Ying, the chairperson of the
Foreign Affairs Committee of the National People's Congress, in a speech delivered in London in July 2016.⁶⁴ She
describes the existing world order, built and led by the United States, as akin to a Pax Americana. As it stands, this
order comprises three layers: "American or Western values," the "U.S.-led military alignment," and the "UN and its
institutions." Fu draws a distinction between the world order and the international order, which she defines more
narrowly as "the UN and its institutions, including the principles of international law" for which China "has a strong
sense of belonging." Beijing has no intention of unraveling the international order or of resetting it because China is
"one of its founders and a beneficiary, a contributor, as well as part of its reform efforts." However, China objects to
be used in the service of the party's cause. Guided to a large extent by the political leadership that allows or
prohibits the use of selected elements of Sinicized Marxism, Western theories, and repurposed Chinese philosophical and
historical traditions, these scholars need both to provide ideas and to elaborate proposals that fit with the CCP's
ideological underpinnings. They also are called on to "develop visionary interpretations of a future world order" that
not only are compatible with the official foreign policy strategy but also justify the leadership's actions.$^{138}$
Chinese analyses identify narratives such as the end of history, the clash of civilizations, and the paradigm of
democratic peace as "elements of foreign strategy that help to cement and stabilize the predominant position."

First, the existing order is unfair. It perpetuates Western dominance while keeping China's influence down in spite of
the country's growing power: China has "long been alienated politically by the western world" despite its "tremendous
progress." The United States continues to deny China's security concerns through its military alliance system and to
reap "great benefits from its leadership role" at a time when both the economic and power centers of gravity have
started to shift in the direction of the "newly rising developing countries." In other words, Fu suggests that the West
and the United States, as leader of the West, have had an enduring disproportionate say over the world order because of
their power, and that this should change to better reflect the shift of the balance of power in favor of emerging
countries. Implicit in her critique is the idea that China, as the most powerful and influential of the newly rising developing countries,
should have a greater role, while the role of the West—and in particular, that of the United States—should decline.

Second, the current world order is unreasonable because it is incapable of solving, and sometimes even adds to, the
world's most serious problems. As an illustration, Fu points to the alleged failure of the "global promotion of Western
values."66 In countries where original governing structures were dismantled to be replaced by new ones, chaos and
negative aftershocks have occurred: the Arab Spring revolutions in 2011 led to disorder, a massive refugee crisis, and
the rise of a terrorist "semi-state." In other words, Fu suggests that efforts to promote Western values have fostered
regime change, which has led to conflict and chaos instead of peace and stability. Implicit in her critique is the view
that any attempt to spread liberal democratic values on a global scale, including in China, is dangerous and
destabilizing.

# China Taking the Lead

The world order therefore needs to be "fairer and more reasonable," and the Chinese leadership is becoming less timorous
about expressing its willingness to strive for this goal. $^{67}$ In March 2013, then foreign minister Yang Jiechi
stated:

We believe that the international multilateral system of the 21st century should expand its representativeness, improve
its fairness and enhance its effectiveness. China is a participant, builder and contributor to the international system.
We will participate more proactively in international affairs and play our due role in developing a fairer and more
reasonable international system.$^{68}$

This objective was reiterated by Xi Jinping during a major internal meeting on China’s foreign affairs in November 2014.
$^{69}$ He took an his remarks at the 19th Party Congress in October 2017, Xi indicated his eagerness to build China
into a "global leader in terms of composite national strength and international influence." In practice, that influence
is already exercised increasingly to shape—and sometimes to challenge—aspects of the existing international system, a
trend that most international observers would see as natural for a rising power.

Mel of the existing international order reveals its unswavering objection to the values on which this order has been
built. As is true at home, the concepts put forward by the in the current state for foreign consumption the potential
erosion of fundamental human rights, freedom of thought and expression, and self\-government around the world.

In an attempt to alleviate the perception that its efforts to transform the world order are nothing but a powerplay,
Beijing also systematically claims that it is asserting its position on behalf of the entire developing world or even as
a reflection of a deep yearning for changes shared by the broader international community because of increasingly
blatant "governance deficits."77 Although Fu Ying concedes that the world order, "dominated by the U.S., has made great
contributions to human progress and economic growth," she argues that "those contributions lie in the past. Now that
same order, is deemed "unfair and unreasonable, and make the world order more fair and reasonable. The closer one gets
to the inklings of of affirmative vision, the more elliptical and deceptive the discourse becomes. One has to get a
litany of incantatory phrases such as amity, sincity, mutual benefit, wide consultation, joint contribution, shared
benefits, mutual understanding, and a shared future of mankind, as well as the party's inevitable claims that
peacefulness is in the Chinese DNA, to get a better sense of the message that is implicitly conveyed. And even then,
there is still a lot that cannot be discerned from the outside looking in.

improve the world through its ideas, aspirations, and norms."$^{81}$ But the precise content of those ideas and
aspirations is only now starting to take shape and remains, as yet, rather uninformed.

Beyond its calls for a reform of the current system in a fairer and more reasonable direction, the Chinese leadership
has not yet openly expressed a positive vision of what it wants the world to look like, nor has it publicly offered a
clear set of ideas to support such a vision. Some leitmotifs and themes have appeared in the official diplomatic
rhetoric, but they often ring hollow: amity,incerity, mutual benefit, and inclusiveness; good-neighborly friendliness,
joint contribution, shared benefits, and extensive consultation; and the now inescapable win-win cooperation.⁸² These
all sound like they have been extracted from a thesaurus of synonyms for "nice" that have been randomly stitched
together, and their exact applicability to the reform of the world order is unclear at best.

It may be the case that the CCP elites themselves do not have a fully formed view of the world that they would like to
see emerge in lieu of the Western-centered world order dominated by the United States that is underpinned by liberal
norms and values. It is equally possible that, shaped by China's deep strategic culture, Beijing's political leadership
has not designed a detailed plan complete with concrete measures and steps, preferring instead to follow the propensity
of things and to leave the possibility for adjustments and evolution along the way.⁸³ It may be the case that there is,
in fact, a clearly fleshed-out vision, but that the CCP elites prefer not to expose it in broad daylight because they
are aware that it would not be easily accepted by the rest of the world. Whatever the exact reason, the leadership seems
to have chosen to err on the side of caution for now. It prudently fine-tunes and experiments with new concepts and
ideas that it hopes will be accepted eventually as replacements for the ones it dismisses as wrong and obsolete, while
trying to persuade the international community that China's intentions are totally benign and its actions justified.

# Ideational Foundations

Any attempt to understand how Beijing sees the world and what kind of world order the leadership would like to see
emerge should start by looking at the party's identity. How the CCP is trying to construct and modify its identity
domestically also informs its worldview and permeates the image that it seeks to present to the outside world.
Notwithstanding the above-mentioned difficulties of accurately grasping the leadership's vision, one element on which it
bases its narrative, both internally and externally, appears very prominently: Chinese exceptionalism. The promotion of
a hierarchical, virtuous, harmonious domestic order on the basis of Chinese exceptionalism helps the CCP bolster its
legitimacy at home and justify its absolute hold on power. The party aims to establish itself as the direct heir of a
long and glorious historical and cultural tradition, hoping to appeal to a sense of national pride and civilizational
hubris. Externally, Chinese exceptionalism supports the claim of inherent peacefulness. Cognizant of its external
audience, the CCP wants to portray itself and its actions to the world in an appealing, benign way in order to defuse threat perceptions. Chinese exceptionalism is also increasingly infusing China's outward-facing
discourse for the purpose of consolidating the country's position on the global stage. By claiming that everyone is
exceptional—a paradoxical universal exceptionalism of sorts—Beijing challenges the claimed universality of certain
values, downgrading them to concepts only applicable to the West, from where they emerged. The hierarchical order
promoted domestically also appears to be the preferred model for the new international order envisaged by Beijing. But,
as will be discussed at greater length in the following sections, for various reasons this desired outcome cannot yet be
openly stated.

# Reclaiming China's Cultural and Historical Heritage

The claim of exceptionalism and its particular emphasis on Chinese cultural and historical uniqueness serve important
political and ideological functions and have been useful domestically as the CCP has tried to reassert its legitimacy
after the Tiananmen crisis and the Soviet collapse.$^{84}$ In particular, the progressive reintegration of elements of
Confucianism within Chinese political and intellectual culture stands out as a crucial feature of the past two
decades.$^{85}$ Even if the re-emergence of traditional culture around the turn of the century emanates to a large
extent from the grassroots of Chinese society,$^{86}$ this revival has also been actively encouraged and reappropriated
by the leadership for political purposes. T.H. Jiang and Shaun O'Dwyer argue that a strand of "authoritarian"
Confucianism has slowly marginalized the ideas of an earlier school of "liberal" Confucian scholars who argued that
ethical values can better flourish in a liberal democratic regime. Instead, the authoritarian Confucians believe that Confucianism...with its emphasis on the sacred "heavenly mandate," the idea of harmony, the use of rituals to regulate
personal desires and interpersonal relationships, and the respect for the educated elite, is better at "settling down
the restless mind of the modern people," pursuing moral excellence, and achieving good governance. These values, they
envision, are universal despite being "Confucian," and China can set an example for the rest of the world to show that
these, Zhongguo guo fangzhe, Zhong guo fang) and made foreign policy decisions under's development and culture, and
practices under the CCP leadership: Once China's development path Various Chinese leaders have made references to classical thought in the context of contemporary politics, including
Jiang Zemin, who declared in November 2002 that China had reached the level of a "society of moderate prosperity"
(xiaokang shehui). John Delury notes:

In the Classic of Rites, one of the canonical texts all educated gentlemen were once expected to study, "moderate
prosperity" describes the unjust, imperfect world Confucius saw around him in the sixth century BC. Confucius contrasted
the fallen condition of "moderate prosperity," where coercive rulers barely contained the effects of people's unbridled
pursuit of their own self-interest, with the utopian vision of "great unity" (datong), in which rulers and ruled worked together to achieve a shared concept of
the common good.$^{88}$

But it was mostly under Hu Jintao that government propaganda narratives reappropriated elements of Confucian
iconography, with the notable integration of "harmony" in the leadership's vision both for the Chinese society and for
the world. $^{89}$ Tradition, long considered by the CCP as an ideological foe and lambasted as a source of Chinese
backwardness and weakness, has further been celebrated by Xi Jinping, who poses as an ardent admirer of Chinese
classics. $^{90}$

Beyond his supposed personal intellectual interest, Xi has described Chinese culture as being of strategic importance,
especially in the context of party building.⁹¹ In a February 2014 address at the Politburo's collective study session on
governance, he underscored the necessity of blending contemporary and historical Chinese political culture through
"creative transformation and innovative development."⁹² While the CCP is firmly Marxist and guided by Mao Zedong Thought
and "socialism with Chinese characteristics," he said, "we are not historical nihilists and are not cultural nihilists.
We cannot be ignorant of the history of our own country, and we cannot belittle ourselves."⁹³ In this endeavor, the
party should "make the past serve the present and bring forth the new from the old"; it should "retain the essence and
discard the dross" to adapt for the contemporary needs of a country facing the world.⁹⁴ References to traditional
heritage, clearly identifiable for their "Chineseness" and carefully selected for their conformity with the party
line,⁹⁵ have increasingly been included in the official discourse alongside Marxist-Leninist principles as means to
enhance the nation's cohesion around the party, as well as the unity within the party.⁹⁶ The promotion of China's
exceptional historical and cultural heritage is supposed to not only induce a sense of pride and distinctiveness in the
population but also—especially since Xi's accession to power—instill morality within the party cadres and the society writ large.$^{97}$ As Xi underscored at
a 2017 session of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection:

Chinese excellent culture has become the gene of the Chinese nation, rooted in the hearts of the Chinese people, subtly
affecting the thought and behavior of the Chinese people. The CCP is made up of outstanding sons and daughters of the
Chinese nation. The blood of the CCP is imbued with the fine genes of Chinese traditional culture. The CCP political
culture is therefore deeply influenced by our excellent traditional culture.$^{98}$

The existing discussions about Chinese visions for a future world order often include the tianxia concept, useful not
only because of its cultural significance and implicit reference to a historical past in which China was dominant, but
also for its vagueness. When applied to contemporary worldviews for a future, the concept's ambiguity allows for
interpreters to dismiss its most problematic imperial imperialist undertonesones. Instead of proposing a plain
tianxiaredux, Chinese scholars are trying to think about modern, softened versions of the system that would be more
appropriate for a 21st-century international order based on sovereign equality and preclude potential suspicions about
Beijing's views of a new world order.

Together with a renewed emphasis on the greatness of China's tradition, the CCP's domestic narrative has blurred
historical and civilizational demarcations, creating the illusion that party rule is the "realization of the natural
order of the Chinese cultural and social universe."$^{102}$ In a twist to the tradition of Marxist historical
materialism, this narrative portrays the party's rule as preordained and inevitable by placing it in an uninterrupted,
almost deterministic, historical continuum. This account presents the CCP as the only rightful depository of China's
exceptional cultural heritage, thus justifying its exclusive grip on domestic political power.$^{103}$ Elizabeth Perry
argues that the party wants to establish itself as the "acknowledged leader of a national revival that lays claim not
only to the legacy of modern revolution but also to much older symbols of cultural splendor and power."$^{104}$ At the
same time as the party remines about the past and positions itself as the rightful inheritor or successor of past
traditions, it also consolidates its role as a willing carrier or promoter of tradition into the future:

Such projection is paired with the elevation of the CCP to the role of an exclusive enactor of traditional culture. The
Party assigns itself the status of a natural, default inheritor of Chinese civilizational heritage while at the same
time claiming the role of being its only legitimate carrier in the future. This new-found role entwines the CCP with the
narratives about the past and projections of the future. As a result, the CCP places itself at the center of China's
civilizational narrative—thereby becoming inseparable from discussions on the country's national development.$^{105}$

The CCP's efforts to legitimize its absolute rule rest on an attempt to blur the demarcations that would otherwise
estrange the party from China's broader historical and cultural tradition. Its identity is increasingly based on an
idiosyncratic amalgamation of Marxist-Leninist principles mixed with cherry-picked Confucian elements and implicit
references to glorious dynasties of the past, something that may be called Sino-socialism.$^{106}$ Situating itself as
the natural heir of an inexorable process, the CCP can claim that it represents and embodies the "legacy of the cultural
tradition(s) of society and, with it, its cultural identity, nationalism and culturalism."$^{107}$ The party can thus
assert itself as the only legitimate ruler on the basis that others would not have the same ability to grasp China's
unique conditions.

# Assertina a Confident Chinese Model

Insisting on China's exceptionalism also helps the party assert its "right to determine and pursue its own style of
governance specific to its unique historical and cultural experience," while refuting all social and political models
other than its own.$^{108}$ As the party monopolizes domestic visions of national culture and history, it is
"simultaneously suppressing alternative interpretations."$^{109}$ Xi Jinping noted in 2014 that "several thousand years
ago, the Chinese nation trod a path that was different from other nations' culture and development." He argued that the
unique ability to start up socialism with Chinese characteristics was enabled "by our country's historical inheritance
and cultural traditions."$^{110}$ Alternative governance models not only would be inappropriate; they would be
dangerous. In a speech at the College of Europe, Xi explained that China "cannot copy the political system or
development model of other countries because it would not fit us and it might even lead to catastrophic
consequences."$^{111}$ Chen Shuguang argues more explicitly that China cannot conform to Western practices because
"Western discourse is only the expression of Western experience and its own version of modernity. For China's historical
and cultural tradition, for China's special national conditions, and for China's historical practice, Western discourse
can only be something to be observed from a distance." China has always found its path independently and has "never
simply copied the development model of the West, never followed the historical path of the West, nor has it simply applied the development logic of the West."$^{112}$ Or as Xi told Greek prime
minister Antonis Samaras in 2014, "your 'democracy' is the democracy of ancient Greece and Rome and it is your
tradition. We have our tradition."$^{113}$

Deng Xiaoping similarly rejected other sociopolitical systems 30 years earlier, arguing in particular that capitalism
"would get China nowhere." Even Marxism should be adapted to better fit China's specific situation, while socialism
should be "tailored to Chinese conditions" and have "a specifically Chinese character"—in other words, it should become
socialism with Chinese characteristics. $^{114}$ Xi remains true to Deng's heritage, albeit with an increased emphasis
on the Chineseness of the model. $^{115}$ This shift is attested by his addition in 2014 of "cultural self-confidence"
(wenhua zixin) to the three other political self-confidences defined in the November 2012 18th Party Congress report:
the country's socialist path with Chinese characteristics (daolu zixin), its guiding theory (lilun zixin), and its
political system or institutions (zhidu zixin). $^{116}$ According to Xi, cultural self-confidence represents the
"unique spiritual identity of the Chinese nation" and encompasses not only China's "excellent traditional culture"
(Zhonghua youxiu chuantong wenhua) but also its "revolutionary culture" and "socialist.

# Portraying China as Inherently Peaceful

After the Tiananmen crisis and the collapse of the Soviet Union, as China's rapid economic growth and military
modernization started to attract worldwide attention, Beijing's elites began to realize that they needed to alleviate
mounting foreign anxieties about "the myth of [the] so-called 'China threat.'"$^{121}$ What the Chinese literature also
frequently refers to as the "so-called China threat theory" mainly derives from the realist assumption that, as a rising power, China must sooner or later challenge
American hegemony and the existing international order, possibly through war. Chinese intellectuals have played an
important role in trying to steer the debate in a more positive direction, providing a rationale for China's claimed
nonconfrontational rise as a valid possibility. The invention of the peaceful rise (heping jueqi) concept in 2003 by
Zheng Bijian, "humane authority" over a hierarchically organized international system is the only way to maintain a
long-lasting and stable order.$^{177}$ Tsinghua was one of the first academic centers to research the applicability of
ancient Chinese theories and stratagems to contemporary and future international relations.$^{178}$

The rise of a major power often results in drastic change in international configuration and world order, even triggers
a world war. An important reason behind this is [that] these major powers followed a path of aggressive war and external
expansion. Such a path is doomed to failure. In today's world, how can we follow such a totally erroneous path that is
injurious to all, China included? China's only choice is to strive for rise, more importantly strive for a peaceful
rise.$^{122}$

In a television interview a few months later, Zheng explained that presenting China's rise as essentially peaceful was
nothing but a tactic to advance the country's interests in a competitive international environment: "Working in this way
has its advantages—in obtaining greater understanding, sympathy and support, in winning discourse power on the question
of China's development path, in winning discourse power in the international sphere."$^{123}$

The peaceful rise concept is a deliberate response to the China threat theory, presented, as William Callahan notes, as
a mirror image that "only makes sense when contrasted with its opposite."$^{124}$ It is an attempt to the West. Finally,
this narrative delineates the contours of CCP's vision for the world, which needs to be coherent and compatibleable the
leadership's look the leadership's ideational framework within which Chinese intellectual elites within the West. It
provides the ideational's vision for the CCP's vision within which they help conceptualize the leadership the
leadership's ideational framework within within which Chinese intellectual elites" It provides the the world, which
needs to be coherent and which Chinese intellectualized" intellectualize the world, which needs to be coherent and which
Chinese the identity. 1945, the CCP's intellectual framework within which the West 945, CCP's intellectualized identity
the West 1945, the CCP's intellectual idealize the world, which needs to be coherent the which West 1945, the CCP's
intellectual idealize the world. 1945, the CCP's intellectual idealize the world.

Rather than a bellicose great power, China is a developing country with a long history as a peace-loving nation. Rather
than using Western international relations theory to understand China's rise in terms of the violent rise and fall of
great powers in Europe, we are told that China's success needs to be understood in the context of the peace and
stability of the East Asian world order.$^{125}$

Zhang Feng concurs that China's emphasis on pacifist discourse is an attempt to mitigate external suspicions about
China's rise and to create instead a friendly international environment for its re-emergence while elevating China to
the moral high ground. $^{126}$ The notion of peaceful rise lingered within Chinese intellectual debates long after Hu
Jintao adopted instead the "peaceful development" formulation in April 2004 on the grounds that "rise" sounded too
provocative. $^{127}$

Both formulations tried to convey the same idea, namely, that China wants to pursue its own development and rise
peacefully within the existing international order and therefore does not represent any challenge whatsoever. As a 2008
essay by Chinese scholars explains: "China's peaceful development neither competes with the existing order, nor creates
a separate order; China's rise merges with the existing international order and plays an active role in improving the
international order."$^{128}$

Chinese spokespersons portray their country as inherently peaceful and benevolent in contrast with an irrepulsively
aggressive and conflict-prone West. $^{129}$ They claim that, as a result of its unique historical experiences and
cultural traditions, China’s own ascendance will be different from the Western hegemons of the past. In the same vein,
over the years, Xi Jinping and other leaders have insisted on China’s inherently peaceful nature: “in China’s blood,
there is no DNA for aggression.” $^{130}$ Rather, “for several millennia, peace has been in the blood of us Chinese and
a part of our DNA.” $^{131}$ When “seeking harmony and coexistence” has been “in the genes of the Chinese nation
throughout history,” when China needs peace “as much as human beings need air and plants need sunshine,” how could China
ever pursue hegemony or militarism? $^{132}$

# Toward an Alternative Model for the World

The insistence on China's unique characteristics and conditions seems at odds with the CCP's desire to construct a
viable alternative vision for a new world order. If China's conditions are so unique, how could the Chinese model be
replicated elsewhere? How could it wield any appeal beyond China's borders? The underlying assumption that the Chinese
leadership attempts to validate through its example is that, because countries differ in their historical conditions,
cultural heritage, and national conditions, there cannot be a universal model that fits all. Each country is therefore
entitled to choose its unique path of development.$^{133}$

The quest for a re-Sinification of the party's ideology and identity goes in parallel with the search for a non-Western
value system and, by extension, a de-Westernization of the global system. In particular, the rejection of the
universality of liberal democratic values, as envisioned and enacted by the current international order, has become the
key element of China's discourse power under Xi Jinping. The instrumentalization of Chinese cultural and historical
traditions for political purposes is concomitant with a refutation of the West, which is portrayed as failing,
dangerous, and chaotic. China's achievements are presented as a validation that the development path chosen by the
leadership is correct, viable, and efficient. Xi believes that in contrast to the "miraculous" development brought about by socialism, "Western capitalism has suffered defeats (financial crisis, debt crisis, trust
crisis) and its confidence has been shaken." $^{134}$ State councilor Yang Jiechi broadened this criticism to the
Western-centric international system as a whole, underpinned by Western values, that made it "increasingly difficult for
Western governance concepts, systems, and models to grasp the new international situation and keep up with the times,"
to the point of utter failure. $^{135}$ For Han Zhen, a professor at Beijing Foreign Studies University, the current
"systemic crisis" has proved the inferiority of the capitalist system, whereas the success of China's approach to
development and its "outstanding economic performance" present "West-centrism with a real challenge of historic
significance." $^{136}$ The contest between the two models, including at the ideological level, is "self-evident."
$^{137}$

Mainly used for domestic political legitimation purposes, Chinese exceptionalism provides a framework for a revamped
identity for the CCP and for the representation of its relation to Chinese society. Chinese exceptionalism is also used
as a propaganda tool to project the party-state's image abroad as infused with traditional Chinese wisdom and love for
peace. The narrative helps present the model chosen and embodied by the party and its accompanying values as distinct
from, if not superior to, those of the West. Finally, this narrative delineates the contours of the CCP's vision for the
world, which needs to be coherent and compatible with the party's overall projection of identity. It provides the
ideational framework within which Chinese intellectual elites must work as they help conceptualize the leadership's
vision for what the world should look like under China's helm.

# Brewing a Chinese Worldview

Karl Marx believed that the role of philosophy was not only to understand the world but also to transform it. In a
similar fashion, the CCP corral Chinese experts in the humanities and social sciences and seeks to point them in a
direction that is in line with its own political principles, thereby influencing the formulation of China's foreign
discourse power and vision for the world. As intellectual workers of the party-state, Chinese scholars are called to
play a critical role in support of the party's endeavor. Guided to a large extent by the political leadership that
allows or prohibits the use of selected elements of Sinicized Marxism, Western theories, and repurposed Chinese
philosophical and historical traditions, these scholars need both to provide ideas and to elaborate proposals that fit
with the CCP's ideological underpinnings. They also are called on to "develop visionary interpretations of a future
world order" that not only are compatible with the official foreign policy strategy but also justify the leadership's
actions.$^{138}$ Chinese analyses identify narratives such as the end of history, the clash of civilizations, and the
paradigm of democratic peace as "elements of foreign strategy that help to cement and stabilize the predominant position of the U.S. on the global stage." $^{139}$ Theories of international relations are generally understood as a tool of
power politics and as a crucial element of international discourse power. In this context, the theories elaborated by
Chinese scholars should not be misread as purportedly objective frameworks for analysis but rather understood as
strategically motivated constructs that align with China’s national interests. Rather than a spontaneous phenomenon
arising from open discussion and debate, Beijing’s vision for a new world order is the result of an orchestrated effort
meant to support the CCP’s needs. $^{140}$

# Scholars in a Gilded Cage

Although some scholars are adamant in presenting their work as entirely independent, purely academic, and disconnected
from politics,$^{141}$ their academic disciplines remain guided by political directives.$^{142}$ However, Chinese
scholarly voices and perspectives are not uniform: along with older generations of Marxist scholars who were trained to
apply historical and dialectic materialism, there are younger intellectuals who have studied Western theories abroad as
well as a rising group of researchers who are now trying to define an essentially Chinese paradigm.$^{143}$
Notwithstanding this diversity, when it comes to strategic messaging, "the leadership still wields the conductor's baton
over the ensemble of voices to ensure adherence to the main melody."$^{144}$ In addition, the party-state has
traditionally put the work of "thinking circles, theoretical circles, and knowledge circles" under political tutelage,
constraining their thoughts and expression in a variety of ways.$^{145}$ Ideological control has markedly increased in
recent years.$^{146}$ When they do not conform to party orthodoxy, academics may find themselves banned from publishing,
teaching, or promotion.$^{147}$ Some might even get dismissed from their jobs, as was the case in March 2019 for law
professor Xu Zhangrun, a proponent of liberal Confucianism who was suspended from Tsinghua University and put under
investigation for his public critique of the party's policies.$^{148}$ The CCP is in complete control of research
funding. Every year the National Planning Office of Philosophy and Social Science, a direct subordinate of the Central
Leading Group for Propaganda and Ideological Work, distributes research grants for projects that the party deems worthy
through the National Social Science Fund of China.$^{149}$ Research projects outside the party’s interests will not get financial support. This
“steering of research by the authorities through funding is not unique to China,” notes Chloé Froissart. As occurs
elsewhere, “Chinese social scientists are now familiar with the art of ‘packaging’ their research projects in the
Newspeak of the Party in order to obtain the funds they need to conduct research over which they still retain partial
control.”$^{150}$ Some of them will choose to closely toe the party line, sometimes to the point that their publications
are almost indistinguishable from propaganda pieces. Others are able to skillfully bring original ideas and perspectives
to the discussion, always aware that the invisible boundaries delineated by the party cannot be crossed without the risk
of paying a personal price.$^{151}$

It is not uncommon for a regime to emphasize its continuity with historical traditions and cultural heritage. Together
with a renewed emphasis on the greatness of China's tradition, the CCP's domestic narrative has blurred historical and
civilizational demarcations, creating the illusion that party rule is the "realization of the natural order of the
Chinese cultural and social universe."^{102} In a twist to the tradition of Marxist historical materialism, this
narrative portrays the party's rule as preordained and inevitable by placing it in an uninterrupted, almost
deterministic, historical continuum. This account presents the CCP as the only rightful depository of China's
exceptional cultural heritage, thus justifying its exclusive grip on domestic political power.^{103} Elizabeth Perry
argues that the party wants to establish itself as the "acknowledged leader of a national revival that lays claim not
only to the legacy of modern revolution but also to much older symbols of cultural splendor and power."^{104} At the
same time as the party remines about the past and positions itself as the rightful inheritor or successor of past
traditions, it also consolidates its role as a willing carrier or promoter of tradition into the future:

# Creating Theories That Reflect "China's Distinct Characteristics"

The top leadership issues general instructions to the intellectual elites, usually leaving the responsibility of their
interpretation to the scholars themselves, who then go on to develop concrete ideas and "try to further flesh out the
contents of these political labels."$^{155}$ The vagueness of the center's instructions sometimes provokes intense debates among experts. In a speech at a conference on Marxist
theoretical research held in June 2012, Li Changchun, the Politburo member in charge of propaganda under Hu Jintao,
expressed for the first time the need for China to create an academic discourse system that would reflect its "distinct
characteristics, style, and imposing manner" (Zhongguo tese, Zhongguo fengge, Zhongguo qipai) and take inspiration not
only from China's history, traditions, and culture but also from the remarkable success of the country's...

During a May 2016 symposium on philosophy and social science, Xi Jinping repeated most of Li's ideas. Xi emphasized the
political and strategic role "of the highest importance" that scholars have to play, noting that the purpose of their
work as "advocates of advanced ideas, pioneers of academic research, leaders of social conduct, and staunch supporters
of the party's ruling" is to place China at the "leading edge of the world."$^{157}$ At a time when China is
experiencing tremendous changes, scholars are expected not only to offer their expertise to inform and support CCP
policymakers but also to contribute to theoretical innovations that build on China's own practice and help attract
global attention. Xi reminded scholars that "Marxism must always occupy the guiding position" in their deliberations, as
it emphasizes "not only explaining the world but also changing it." At the same time, he called them to accelerate the
construction of a disciplinary field with "Chinese characteristics, style, and flair and of universal significance" that
incorporates China's "excellent culture," "the most basic, profound, and lasting force." Developing a Chinese system of
social science discourse is necessary to "achieve at the UN General Assembly lectern on September 28, 2015, the
community's "destiny".

The development of distinctively Chinese social science theories is seen as integral to the party's ideological and
propaganda work and its soft appeal to the rest of the world.$^{159}$ According to Xi, philosophy and social science are
the "foundations that support the discourse system. Without our own philosophy and social science system, there will be
no discourse power."$^{160}$ In this particular context, "theory" is understood as normative rather than scientific.
Chinese scholars are not called to provide empirical, predictive, value-free theories but are asked to describe how the world system should be organized as a critique of the prevailing system's faults and a validation of
the party's view.

Based on Xi's guidance, the Central Leading Group for Comprehensive Deepening Reform adopted a document charting the
future development of the field, which was publicly released in May 2017. The document mostly reiterates Xi's points and
highlights in particular the need to use "Chinese theories to interpret Chinese practice, use Chinese practice to
sublimate Chinese theories, innovate in foreign discourse expressions, and enhance [China's] international discourse
power." In other words, as Froissart notes, the CCP leadership assigned a very specific mission to Chinese scholars: to
contribute to the "development of the regime's ideology and of a model of social, economic, political and environmental
modernity that can be exported abroad." This model will be capable of "competing with the Euro-American conception of
modernity, of liberal and capitalist inspiration. Thus, the renaissance of the great Chinese nation will be completed by
its ability to theorize and export this alternative model of modernity and 'civilization.'"

Theorized by Chinese scholars, the contours of this newly created exportable model of modernity should naturally mirror
what makes China unique and display what makes it successful. It cannot include any Western concepts, ideals, or values.
"Document 9," widely circulated internally by the CCP General Office in April 2013, made clear that such "false
ideological trends, positions, and activities" gravely endanger the prospects of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese
nation. "Western constitutional democracy" and its appended principles of multiparty elections, the separation of powers
that were "expected to 'come and be transformed' among its Asian neighbors, emerging and developing countries, and
nations along the and nationsist's coridors. At the same time, it is surrounding neighbors, and and nations along the
BRI corridors Although softened by adjectives statehood, it remains associated with imperial expansionism and rooted in
hard power. As Callahan concludes, attempts to define an alternative to Western Hegomony do not lead to "a post that a
post- hegonic international society that is more fluid and open, but a different-egonomy that is centered on the dynamic
relationship of civil and military military of militaryist and militaryital values in China."

Zhang Zhizhou, a professor at the Beijing Foreign Studies University, notes that a country's foreign discourse power
must reflect "many factors such as its national ideology, values, cultural traditions, interest concerns, foreign
strategies, and so on....A strong international discourse power is conducive to maintaining or promoting national
concepts, values, and cultural traditions, and then guides the mainstream of international discourse." In this national
security is concept infuses academicuates. Its usefulness as a public, the concept infuses academic discussionsuquan is
thus very limited. Nonetheless, the concept a new world order is thus a new world order is thus very. Nonetheless, the
the concept infuses academic discussions and submission. Its usefulness as a public label for Beijing's vision for a new
world order is thus very limited. Nonetheless, the concept infuses academic discussions and submission. its usefulness
as a public label for Beijing's vision for a new world order is thus veryuquan is thus very limited. Nonetheless, the
concept and submission. submission. its usefulness as a public label for Beijing's vision for a new world order is thus
very, and submission 37 culture is nothing but a "suitable communication channel for 'explaining China's story' (or stories). Glorious, ancient
Chinese culture should be presented to the world in order to explain China's civilized progress and peaceful development
and to elucidate the plentiful meanings of the China Dream."$^{167}$ China's outstanding culture, noble past, and
splendid civilization are therefore considered as nothing less than convenient instruments that Chinese intellectuals
are allowed to choose from in order to create a countervailing point to the Western monopoly of discourse power. From
the large toolbox now at their disposal, Chinese scholars can pick whatever they find valuable and leave what they do
not, meticulously selecting and repurposing specific elements that justify the end, "keeping fully in mind the
experiences, lessons and warnings of history."$^{168}$

At the core of Chinese scholars' reflections on alternative world systems lies an attempt to challenge the universal
applicability of Western theories, a trend that has noticeably accelerated since the 2008 global financial crisis. As
Zhang Xiping writes, "the theory that Western economic progress proves the superiority of its culture does not
correspond to historical facts. We must consider Western culture as a regional culture, so that we can end the myth of
an equivalence between Western culture and modernity." $^{169}$ Chen Shuguang explains that the Western discourse, which
has matured over hundreds of years and is shaping the global order and world system, is "only the expression of a
Western experience and a Western version of modernity." In contrast, China's discourse is the "theoretical expression of
China's path, the theoretical promotion of China's experience." It ultimately reflects China's own vision of modernity.
Modernization cannot be avoided, but the road to modernization does not necessarily have to follow the Western model:
"Western modernity is only a version of modernity, not the only version." $^{170}$

Motivated by their mission to serve their country's future role and fulfill its responsibilities in the world, Chinese
thinkers have increasingly turned to China's history and cultural traditions for inspiration to bring about indigenous
IR theories. $^{171}$ Already in 2001, Zhang Yongjin was writing that "no credible IR theory can be built upon the
narrow confines of the European historical experience....China's rich and deep history is an important avenue for
exploring other world orders." $^{172}$ Similarly, in a 2005 lecture at Tsinghua University, Gan Yang called for
"uniting the three traditions" (those of the Qing dynasty, Maoist socialism, and Dengist reform and opening) in order to
reimagine the narrative of Chinese modernity. $^{173}$ Despite the modernization of IR research in China, the
introduction of Western methods, and the recent efforts to create Chinese concepts and theories, Marxism is still
omnipresent in Chinese IR debates. Nele Noesselt notes that "even though the younger generation of Chinese IR scholars
now often looks at the world through neo-realist glasses, their research is at the same time deeply influenced by the
remnants of Maoist-Marxist concepts." $^{174}$ These remnants can be found in their terminology (such as references to "contradictions" or "historical and dialectical materialism") as well as in their critiques of hegemony and the
inequalities of global power distribution.$^{175}$

# Chinese Schools of International Relations

According to Ren Xiao, a professor of international relations at Fudan University, there are four main Chinese schools
currently discussing indigenous approaches to IR theory.$^{176}$ Their work reflects on principles of interaction, power
distribution, and the overall structure of the world system as seen from an essentially Chinese perspective.

First is the Tsinghua school, led by Tsinghua University professor Yan Xuetong, which focuses on the pre-Spring and
Autumn (770-476 BCE) and Warring States (475-221 BCE) periods to study interactions between independent kingdoms in a
context not dominated by the West. Yan has elaborated a theory of moral realism that combines material power with an
enlightened political leadership and argues that "true kingship" or "humane authority" over a hierarchically organized
international system is the only way to maintain a long-lasting and stable order.$^{177}$ Tsinghua was one of the first
academic centers to research the applicability of ancient Chinese theories and stratagems to contemporary and future
international relations.$^{178}$

The second school is led by Qin Yaqing, a professor at China Foreign Affairs University who was one of the early
proponents of a Chinese school of international relations.179 He mostly explores international relations through a
Confucian prism, contrasting "relationality" based on interactions and "relatedness" with the Western emphasis on
individualistic rationality. Instead of institutions, rules, and norms as enforcers of cooperation and governance, Qin
believes that a country's interests can be realized through a process of managing relations with other states.
Interactions are akin to a parent-child rather than a brother-sister relationship: the strong have the responsibility to
protect the weak, and the weak must obey the desires of the strong.

Third, Zhao Tingyang, a professor of philosophy at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, spent the first decade of the
21st century revisiting the traditional concept of tianxia (everything under heaven) as a utopian future alternative to
the anarchic, violent, and zero-sum Westphalian order. Zhao's version of tianxia is of a hierarchical "world society"
that transcends borders and whose ruling center is not democratically elected but legitimated through its compliance
with moral and ethical values.$^{180}$

Finally, a group of international relations scholars at Fudan University in Shanghai has focused on developing a
symbiotic theory that underlines the importance of harmony with differences and in which diverse cultures and
civilizations coexist on the basis of equality.

It is not yet clear whether one of these schools of thought predominantly influences the discourse within the Chinese
political elite, but at least three of them call for the creation of a hierarchical system justified by the moral
authority of the ruling power. Cognizant of the fact that the ancient form of tianxia and its suzerainty-vassalage relations may be difficult to sell in a world where the idea of
sovereign equality is an accepted norm, Chinese scholars are trying to adapt and tone down this concept's most
problematic characteristics. But the concept is helpful in defining a new world order along the lines desired by the
Chinese leadership.

# Exploring Everything Under the Heavens

The concept of tianxia is highly debated within and outside China and can have several meanings: a geographic entity, a
political system, a cultural unit, a worldview, or even a moral aspiration.$^{181}$ It can be described as a borderless
order with China at its center; a benign hierarchical order guided by morality and administered for the benefit of all,
whose attractiveness to surrounding regions is not coercive, and where the center protects the periphery while the
periphery is subordinated to the center. This concept is also informed by a sense of the superiority of the Chinese
civilization (huaxia) over that of surrounding states, which were "expected to 'come and be transformed' by the superior
culture of the central polity."$^{182}$ Finally, it is associated with the tributary system that prevailed in East Asia
until the nineteenth century in which Chinese emperors expected their vassals to acknowledge their superiority in
exchange for the son of heaven's permission to engage in trade and promise of military protection.

Yuen Foong Khong argues that American hegemony is a contemporary form of tianxia: as the epicenter of a network of
alliances, the United States offers its allies and partners (similar to tributaries) protection and access to its
markets in return for their recognition of the United States as the hegemon and their emulation of its political ideas
and norms.$^{183}$ Wang Gungwu asserts that tianxia is more an imaginative vision than an exact equivalent of world
order. Over the centuries, many forms of tianxia have existed, sometimes threatening China's own tianxia and sometimes
coexisting peacefully, such as India's Buddhism, the Mediterranean monotheist religions, and the Turco-Mongol, Persian,
and Roman empires.$^{184}$

Modern Chinese intellectuals have turned to the tianxia concept, albeit differently at different times, to help define
and articulate their worldview. Kang Youwei, the leader of the reform movement of 1898 and a Confucian scholar, wove the
tianxia idea into his vision of a united world community (datong, meaning "great unity"). This community, "with strong
socialist overtones, transcends the state, ethnicity, class, gender and other relations of hierarchy and domination" and
leads to global peace, in which "people are freed from particular attachments and all goals are shared in common."
$^{185}$ Lei Zhang and Zhengrong Hu see in the tianxia utopia strong commonalities with another utopia, Communism. They
note that Mao Zedong believed that Kang Youwei "had failed to find the real path to great unity, which was only possible
'through the people's republic that reaches socialism and communism to achieve the annihilation of social class and the great
unity of Tianxia." Following the founding of the PRC in October 1949, "the slogans on Tian'anmen Gate tower was [sic]
finalized as 'Long Live People's Republic of China' and 'Long Live the Great Unity of Tianxia People' which reflects the
international order view of a socialist country."$^{186}$

Contemporary discussions about Chinese visions for a future world order often include the tianxia concept, useful not
only because of its cultural significance and implicit reference to a historical past in which China was dominant, but
also for its vagueness. When applied to contemporary worldviews for a future order, the concept's ambiguity allows for
interpreters to elide its most problematic imperialistic undertones. Instead of proposing a plain tianxiaredux, Chinese
scholars are trying to think about modern, softened versions of the system that would be more appropriate for a
21st-century international order based on sovereign equality and preclude potential suspicions about Beijing's views of
a future world order.$^{187}$

In order to assuage the potential fear born of history that China's neighbors may feel, Chinese historian Xu Jilin
describes a "tianxia 2.0" that is very different from the old Asian order. It would essentially be "de-centered and
non-hierarchical":

Evidently concerned that references to the re-establishment of a Chinese order would arouse international suspicion
about China's hegemonic ambitions, Jian Junbo, from the Institute of International Studies of Fudan University, likewise
has attempted to adapt the tianxia concept for contemporary needs. Instead of one "core country," he proposes creating
the modern version of tianxia around a group of countries that together could eliminate the hegemon's dominance.
However, Jian concedes that it would be impossible to completely erase the concept's hierarchical structure because "in
any given order, there exists an uneven distribution of power." In the new tianxia order that he envisages, the most
powerful countries might enjoy special privileges corresponding to their might, but they will also bear the greatest
international obligations.$^{189}$

Other scholars insist on tianxia's benevolent nature. In a detailed essay written in 2015, Li Yangfan from Peking
University's School of International Studies describes tianxia as a public good provided by the ancient Chinese
dynasties to their neighbors. In exchange, these countries obtained material and cultural benefits as well as enhanced
domestic political legitimacy.

In the new tianxia order, there is no center, there are only independent and peaceful peoples and states who respect one
another. Nor will there be a hierarchical arrangement of power in terms of domination and enslavement, protection and
submission; instead it will be a peaceful order of egalitarian co-existence, one that spurns authority and
domination....And in the international, external order, China's relations with its neighbors and indeed every nation in
the world, regardless of whether they are great or small nations, will be defined by the principles of respect for each
other's sovereign independence, equality in their treatment of each other, and peaceful co-existence.$^{188}$

China was the originator and maintainer of a system that other free-riding members wanted to maintain in order to
perpetuate the rewards that came with it. Most importantly, the Chinese emperor's support helped local rulers maintain
their hold on power in the vassal states. In an interesting thought exercise, Li describes tianxia as a proto-version of
the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).$^{190}$ Jiang Shigong, a legal scholar and professor at Peking University Law
School, insists on tianxia's universalism, in part because it helps justify China's development model and political
system as equally legitimate to other (Western) ones: "a truly universal tianxia theory can contain within it varied
developmental models." This interpretation also reinforces the claim of China's inherent peacefulness and respect for
other cultures: "China respected the culture of neighboring countries and was good at adopting the positive points of
those cultures for her own continual improvement, in such a manner providing a model posture and attracting the study
and emulation of neighboring countries and regions." China, therefore, will absolutely "never force its development
model on other countries as the West has done."$^{191}$

# New Paradigm or Old Realpolitik?

The construction of a Chinese paradigm rooted in Chinese tradition does not aim at defining abstract theories that
explain patterns of international behavior. Instead, this aims at providing a discursive framework that helps the
party-state justify its ambitions while defusing external threat perceptions. Efforts to deny the applicability of
concepts that are labeled as Western—and therefore as fundamentally alien to Chinese culture—are meant to obscure the
reality of China's assertiveness. Through the eyes of Chinese scholars (and, by extension, of the Chinese leaders), the
use of force may well be interpreted as an attempt to restore harmony and to abide by Confucian ideals of order and
stability. It remains an expression of power politics and reflects rational cost-benefit calculations.$^{192}$ Tianxia
thus may be used as a euphemism for Chinese hegemony.$^{193}$ Although softened by adjectives such as benevolent or
humane or described as the result of a revered ancient virtue called the "kingly way," it remains associated with
imperial expansionism and rooted in hard power. "detached spectator" who used to "accept and learn" the international
rules to an active in the development of new rules that will "break the Western moral advantage" and focus on
"development rights" instead of "good and bad" political systems.$^{197}$

As they wrestle with the elaboration of a vision for a new world order, Chinese elites usually refer back to tianxia,
even if they may have different interpretations for what it precisely means and entails. Their idea is not to slavishly
re-enact an ancient system but to use a Chinese framework to think about the world. The problem is that tianxia, just
like "empire," conjures up negative images of hierarchy, domination, and submission. Its usefulness as a public label
for Beijing's vision for a new world order is thus very limited. Nonetheless, the concept infuses academic discussions
and may even already inform China's external behavior. Even if Chinese intellectuals have not yet completed the task
that was assigned to them, the leadership is already shaping the international environment in a way that better fits its views and interests. In a sense, Xi Jinping has outrun the intellectual
discussion and made foreign policy decisions, the details of which are now being worked out in both theory and practice.

# Altering the World

During his 2015 visit to the United States, Xi Jinping indicated that China is "participant, builder, contributor, and
beneficiary of the current international system. Reforming and improving the current international system does not mean
starting from scratch but rather promoting its development in a more just and reasonable direction."$^{195}$
International concerns about China challenging the existing order are totally "unnecessary," contends Deng Qingke from
the Party Theory Research Center in Hunan Province, because China's willingness to promote mutual trust, mutual benefit,
and mutual learning "has transcended the old pattern of international political thinking" and shows that "China does not
seek hegemony...and will not follow the old path of 'domination by the strongest.'"$^{196}$ However, under Xi's
leadership, China's diplomatic practice has entered a period of major transformation. For Li Ziguo, an expert at the
Eurasia Institute of the China Institute of International Studies, China's position in the international system has
evolved from that of a "detached spectator" who used to "accept and learn" the international rules to an active
participant in the development of new rules that will "break the Western moral advantage" and focus on "development
rights" instead of "good and bad" political systems.$^{197}$

# Qualified to Guide a World in Need

Chinese commentary praises Xi for "standing on the commanding heights of the historical development process of mankind"
and devising "far-reaching" answers to the world's most pressing conundrums, led by a "powerful sense of
mission."$^{198}$ For Chinese commentators, the leadership not only "conform "China respected the culture of neighboring
countries and was good at adopting the positive models. This interpretation also reinforces the claim of China's
inherent peacefulness and respect for other cultures: "China respected the culture of neighboring countries and was good
at adopting the positive models."

The remedy for the failures of Western civilization that the Chinese leadership would like to promote as the basis for
reforming the international system draws on China's own experience.$^{201}$ "Every problem China has faced is a
world-class problem," and, therefore, every solution chosen by the Chinese government can become an inspiration for others. $^{202}$ The “China solution” adopted for its own
purpose “resolves the tension between uniqueness and universal relevance”; it is a “path to peace, prosperity and
modernity that others can follow.” $^{203}$ Hu Rongtao believes that the dissemination of China’s development paradigm
will help define a positive brand, promote China’s international image, and ultimately “break the Western discourse
monopoly.” $^{204}$ For Chinese analysts and commentators, this does not mean that China is proselytizing or willfully
pressing its model onto other countries to serve its own interests. Rather, Beijing is answering the call of a world
embroiled in great turmoil. Countries are looking for ideas that can be used to solve their own governance problems
while delivering “fairness and justice” and “peace and development,” which are the “common aspirations of all mankind.”
$^{205}$ Zhao Yongshuai and Qin Long depict the world as “needing” and “expecting” China to fulfill its
responsibilities. $^{206}$ And because China has “always stood at the moral summit,” no other country is better
qualified for becoming such a role model. Xi stated the following during a February 2017 National Security Work
Conference: “The glorious 5,000-year history of the Chinese nation, the 95-year historical struggle of the CCP, and the
38-year development miracle of reform and opening up have already declared to the world with indisputable facts that we
are qualified to be a leader” that can guide the international community to build a new order. $^{207}$

# Calling for the Creation of a Community of Common Destiny

Xi Jinping has come close to candidly framing his vision for a new world order under China's helm as a 21st-century
version of the tianxia model. On multiple occasions, he has repeated his wish to see the world come together in harmony
as one family under the same heaven (shijie datong tianxia yijia).$^{208}$ Xi usually associates this imagery with his
vision for the building of a community of common destiny (renlei mingyun gongtongti), now translated in official Chinese
documents as a "community with a shared future for mankind" (or for humanity).$^{209}$ He mentioned this concept for the
first time in March 2013 at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations while describing to his audience the
"kaleidoscopic changes that make the world constantly different." In a world increasingly interlinked and
interdependent, people, "by living in the same global village within the same time and space where history and reality
meet, have increasingly emerged as a community of common destiny in which everyone has in himself a little bit of
others."$^{210}$ By the time Xi appeared at the UN General Assembly lectern on September 28, 2015, the community's
"destiny" had mutated into a "shared future," and its components were more explicit.$^{211}$ Xi expounded on the same themes
during his speech at the UN Office in Geneva on January 18, 2017.$^{212}$

In a 2017 op-ed, the Xinhua editors depict the leader's vision as a game changer of the magnitude of the Enlightenment
ideas or the theories of Marx. Whenever "world history enters a critical juncture," they contend, intellectual visions
are always crucial "driving forces for human progress." The community of common destiny, which offers the world "Chinese
wisdom" and a "Chinese solution," "draws new blueprints for the advancement of human society."²¹³ For Hu Rongtao, a
researcher at Xiamen University, this concept represents the "commanding point in the construction of [China's]
international discourse power."²¹⁴ Reflecting its importance for the leadership, the concept was mentioned half a dozen
times in the 19th Party Congress report, and the PRC constitution was amended to include it in March 2018.²¹⁵ A
compilation of Xi's speeches on the community of common destiny was subsequently published in October 2018,²¹⁶ and since
its first articulation, Chinese scholars have been busily writing exegeses of the leader's vision.²¹⁷

Xi's vision for the community of common destiny is not modest.$^{218}$ Its goal is nothing less than building an "open,
inclusive, clean, and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security, and common prosperity."$^{219}$
This holistic concept rests on political, security, economic, cultural, and environmental pillars. These are the same
five pillars that Hu Jintao identified in May 2003 when he delivered a speech at the Moscow State Institute of
International Relations (an interesting coincidence of locations). Hu articulated his vision for building a "harmonious
world" with the same hope of bringing about "lasting peace and universal prosperity," which he considered "the
inevitable request of human society development." In Chinese politics, if history does not repeat itself, it certainly
often rhymes. According to Hu, full collaboration in five areas would help construct a harmonious world:

Politically, all countries should respect each other and conduct consultations on an equal footing in a common endeavor
to promote democracy in international relations; economically, they should cooperate with each other, draw on each
other's strengths and work together to advance economic globalization in the direction of balanced development, shared
benefits and win-win progress; culturally, they should learn from each other in the spirit of seeking common ground
while shelving differences, respect the diversity of the world, and make joint efforts to advance human civilization; in
the area of security, they should trust each other, strengthen cooperation, settle international disputes by peaceful
means rather than by war and work together to safeguard peace and stability in the world; on environmental issues, they
should assist and cooperate with each other in conservation efforts to take good care of the earth, the only home for
human beings.$^{220}$

The transmutation of Hu’s concept of a harmonious world into Xi’s community of common destiny comes with some degree of
refinement. For each of the five pillars, signposts or keywords indicate an attempt to define values or norms
underpinning each domain. However, these keywords sound more like incantations chosen to generate positive responses
from the rest of the world than heartfelt principles on which to build a new international order. Although official
Chinese media has praised Xi’s vision as trailblazing,²²¹ it looks more like a list of what Beijing advocates for its
own needs, security, and position than an innovative contribution for the future of the world.²²²

- In the political arena, Xi advocates fostering "dialogue and consultation" rather than confrontation and building
"partnerships" rather than alliances. All countries should have the "right to independently choose social systems and
development paths." These themes reflect the CCP's deepest insecurity about its survival, which the leadership believes
is threatened both by the U.S. military power and alliances and by the Western global promotion of democracy and
universal values.

- In the security domain, Xi proposes building a “common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable” security that
abandons the “Cold War mentality,” takes a “holistic approach to addressing traditional and non\-traditional security
threats,” and is based on “resolving disputes through dialogue and consultation.” Xi put forward the holistic security
concept during the first meeting of China’s National Security Commission in April 2014, requesting the CCP to address
both internal and external threats to its political security. $^{223}$ “Cold War mentality” is a refrain that Beijing
uses to criticize any outside effort perceived as preventing, undermining, or containing China’s rise. Xi put forward
the “common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable” security concept at the May 2014 Conference on Interaction and
Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) summit when he called for “Asian people to uphold Asia's security." This is one of his clearest hints at his willingness to counter the United States' regional
military primacy.$^{224}$

- In the economic domain, Xi promotes a prosperous world based on an open and inclusive global economy and win-win
cooperation. Drawing lessons from the 2008 financial crisis, he emphasizes forming "synergies between market forces and
government function." $^{225}$ This reflects China's desire to keep foreign markets open to its products and investments
and satisfy its need for raw materials, technology, and intellectual property, while retaining the right to restrict
access to its own market and preserve its own state-led model.

- In the cultural sphere, Xi advocates respecting "cultural diversity" and "accepting differences" based on "mutual
learning, mutual respect, and harmonious coexistence." There is "no such thing as a superior and inferior civilization,"
and different civilizations should "have dialogue and exchanges instead of trying to exclude or replace each other." As
seen in section three of this report, in CCP official parlance, allusions to culture or civilization should be read as
references to sociopolitical models.$^{226}$ In the community of destiny context, "trying to exclude or replace
civilizations that are different" amounts to rejecting the transformation of nondemocratic political regimes, which
again goes back to the CCP's primary fear for its own survival.

Finally, as far as the environment is concerned, Beijing strives to "make our world clean and beautiful" by putting
"mother nature and green development first" and pursuing "harmony between man and nature." This reflects Beijing's own
domestic approach to ecology: environmental protection and green development are meant to serve the country's economic
development goals, not the other way around.$^{227}$

Absent from the official description of the community of common destiny is any discussion about the invisible bonds, or
shared values, that tie the community together. Gao Jianhua, a researcher from the Central Institute of Socialism (also
known as China's Cultural Institute), explains that the "common values of mankind" are not the "so-called universal
values of the West." Gao argues that the latter have no universal applicability because they originate from a narrow
Western experience and do not take into account the diversity of national characteristics, historical development,
natural conditions, and development processes among countries. According to Gao, the promotion of those "so-called
universal values" is nothing other than a tool used by the West to support and sustain its hegemony. To the contrary,
the common values of mankind are based on the "full respect of each country's special values" and the search for the
greatest common denominator shared by all. Chen Lai, president of the Tsinghua University Institute of Chinese Studies,
also denies the universality of values such as democracy, freedom, and justice as promoted during the twentieth century.
For Chen, these are the United States' and other Western countries' domestic political values but not the values of the
world. In addition, in world affairs the West has "never adhered" to them, preferring instead to "advocate power, hegemony and unilateralism." $^{228}$ By contrast, both Gao and Chen believe that traditional Chinese philosophical
concepts are truly universal and can become sources for the common human values underpinning the community that Xi hopes
to see emerge. $^{229}$

To alter the existing world order, Beijing is taking concrete steps, working concomitantly and with utmost determination
at three main levels: first, since 2013, it has been promoting BRI; second, in parallel, it is trying to establish a
network of partnerships to advance its vision; finally, it is working on expanding its international institutional
power, both within existing institutions and through the creation of China-led platforms. Taken together, these three
initiatives form the backbone, sinews, and tendons of the new order that Beijing would like to create. It is less clear
what vital breath would animate the new body, but the CCP would undoubtedly not bring Western conceptions of universal
values and human rights into the mix.

# The Belt and Road Initiative: The New Order's Backbone

Since its launch in 2013, BRI has become the most prominent feature of China’s foreign policy. More than just an
infrastructure\-building project, who indeed audience. Who, indeed, would refuse to endorse the noble idea of building a
common future for mankind? Or who would reject the prospect of global ever lasting peace, prosperity, and security?
There is only one catch: in Beijing's world,}$

and adviser to the National Security Commission, thinks that BRI is gradually "getting rid of the shackles of the
postwar U.S.-dominated international financial and monetary system" and that the "community of interests" based on
equality and mutual benefit, together with the "community of destiny" based on common development, will "help break the
old unequal international political and economic order." BRI is giving rise to a world diametrically opposed to the
existing one: it "does not limit the nature of a given country's political system, is not underlined by ideology, does
not create tiny circles of friends, does not set up trade protectionism, does not set up economic blockades, does not
exercise control of other countries' economic lifelines or change other countries' political systems." $^{236}$ As he
depicts what the initiative is not, General Peng offers the most genuine description of the world order that Beijing
calls for.

BRI is obviously a key component of Beijing's effort to create deeper connections with countries beyond its
traditionally preferred sphere of influence in its immediate periphery, along multiple economic corridors radiating over
land and sea from China outward to Europe, the Arctic, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Oceania. The promise
of infrastructure investments is the hook. Material and economic incentives, especially when they are offered without
immediate conditions or political demands, can be an appealing proposition for countries that are facing economic
difficulties; have a real need for and see the benefits of building reliable, efficient, and modern infrastructure; and
can foresee the potential economic benefits that such infrastructure projects could bring. But they are only a first
step. Once countries have expressed an interest in infrastructure projects and the accompanying Chinese loans,
investments, or aid packages, then several other connectivities that are an integral part of the BRI bundle are also
offered and deployed. These include free trade agreement negotiations; financial and currency-swap agreements;
industrial standards expansion across transportation, energy, and digital networks; intensified security cooperation
justified by the need to protect Chinese workers employed on the projects;²³⁷ smart- or safe-city programs;²³⁸ student
scholarships and academic exchanges; scientific joint research centers and cooperation programs; and professional
training sessions for media. Cooperation undertaken under the BRI umbrella thus takes multiple forms. As Beijing knits
formal and informal networks with local governments, business communities, academics, journalists, and other active
members of local civil society, it hopes to create deeper bonds that will eventually draw regional countries into its
orbit.

# Global Network of Partnerships: The New Order's Sinews

Whereas BRI is the backbone of the community of common destiny, the global network of partnerships, officially based on
"dialogue, non-confrontation, and non-alliance," constitutes its sinews. $^{239}$ Xi Jinping first aired the idea in November 2014 at the Central Conference on Work Relating to
Foreign Affairs, underlying the need for China to make “more friends while abiding by the principle of nonalignment.”
$^{240}$ Zhou Fangyin, a researcher at the Guangdong Institute for International Strategies, explains that China’s
partnership diplomacy is not meant to lock countries into military or security alliances, but that it seeks “all-around
cooperation in such areas as economy, politics, diplomacy and security,” underpinned by China’s values of “mutual
respect, fairness, justice and win\-win cooperation.” $^{241}$ Two researchers from the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences, Xu Jin and Guo Chu, describe these partnerships as essential to the emergence of the community of common
destiny. Countries will join initially because they recognize the economic benefits that they can reap from their
relationship to China. In time, they will become amenable to broadening and deepening political and security
cooperation. Increased interactions will help shape the views of the members of the nascent community and foster a
feeling of togetherness among them. Xu and Guo believe that, after a while, not only will people come to feel that being
part of the community of common destiny is necessary for pragmatic reasons, but it will also appear “inevitable and the
right thing to do.” Increased interactions will allow trust building and enhance friendship until the community members
“become accustomed” to China playing the role of a regional and global leader. $^{242}$

Beijing has traditionally sought to expand the country’s circle of friends as a base to support its interests and to
create a “favorable environment” for China’s rise. $^{243}$ The concept of a network of partners gives a stronger sense
of purpose to China’s diplomatic practice. State councilor Wang Yi considers these partnerships as “firming up” the
foundation of the community of common destiny. $^{244}$ As is often the case in party verbiage, the concept of
partnerships is malleable and ill\-defined. It could refer to a collection of bilateral or multilateral relationships
that are defined by convergent interests and, as Timothy Heath notes, serve as “channels to build consensus on norms and
values favorable to Chinese international leadership” in an effort to “guide the policies of other governments, promote
norms favored by China, and encourage pro\-China popular sentiment in other countries.” $^{245}$ The statement
supporting China’s “deradicalization measures” in Xinjiang presented on behalf of 54 countries at the October 2019 UN
General Assembly session can be considered as an example of the benefits to be derived from the kind of network of
global partnerships that Beijing would like to foster. $^{246}$ In some cases, Beijing does not need a large group of partners to weigh in on issues that are considered its core national interests. In 2017, it only took Greece, for
example, to block a European Union statement at the United Nations criticizing China's human rights record.$^{247}$

China's network of partners is not limited to authoritarian regimes. Cooperative democracies perhaps play the most
significant role in legitimizing an agenda that undermines the very foundation of the global normative order. Katrin
Kinzelbach observes, for example, that it would be possible for democracies, which hold a clear majority among the 47
members of the UN Human Rights Council, to jointly defend the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. But the concepts
pushed forward by Chinese representatives, such as the notion that economic growth is paramount and that the "right to
develop" is the most important human right, appeal "not only to authoritarian states but also to some democratically
governed countries."248

In order to strengthen its position on the international stage and expand its network of friends, China since 2013 has
focused its diplomatic efforts on relationships with countries in its periphery, broadly defined. Here, Beijing is
pursuing a multipronged approach that includes strengthened political relations, economic bonds, security cooperation,
and people interpretations of the future's ideological underpinnentionsangements that not only are call of the official
foreign policy strategy role in support of the party's endeavor. They of the ideational's ideologically under for the
future world order that not only policy strategy but also justify the leadership's actions. $^{138}$ Chinese analyses
identify narratives such as the end of history, the clash of civilizations, and the paradigm of democratic peace as
"elements of foreign strategy that help to cement and stabilize the predominant position.

Alongside the renewed diplomatic priority given to its extended neighborhood, China has identified the developing world
as a fertile ground for expanding its network of global partners. During the 2014 Central Conference on Work Relating to
Foreign Affairs, Xi declared that China should “strengthen unity and cooperation with developing countries and closely integrate our own development with the
common development of all developing countries.” $^{254}$ Although it is becoming more difficult for China to continue
to portray itself as part of the developing world as its own power grows, the Chinese leadership wants to nurture its
image as the representative of the “rest.” In a September 2013 meeting of the G-77 (the 135 developing nations in the
United Nations), Wang Yi declared:

Even when China becomes stronger and more prosperous, it will remain a staunch member of the developing world because
China and fellow developing countries have similar past, common development tasks and ever-expanding shared strategic
interests. The developing countries are always the basis of China’s diplomacy. We will continue to enhance our
cooperation with the other developing countries, firmly uphold the legitimate rights and interests of the developing
countries at the UN, G20, APEC and other platforms, speak for the developing countries, and support greater
representation and say of the developing countries in international affairs. $^{255}$

Li Kaisheng, a senior fellow from the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, considers this self-appointed task as "not
only necessitated by the need for China's own development" but also a "moral responsibility delegated to China by the
international community." $^{256}$ Cooperation among developing countries and the reinforcement of South-South alliances
will play a key role in helping China promote the establishment of a new international economic order along the BRI
corridors, argue Shandong University's Liu Wen and Liu Jie. $^{257}$ The Chinese political elites have unilaterally
assigned themselves the mission to speak up on behalf of the developing world and perhaps even to cultivate the dream of
becoming the guiding light of the non-Western, undeveloped world. Su Ge, the chairperson of the China Pacific Economic
Cooperation National Committee, believes, for example, that developing countries and emerging economies are
materializing as a coherent group, with China as the "dazzling star" among them. $^{258}$ The developing world has a
crucial role to play in helping China strengthen a discourse power that contests Western dominance. $^{259}$ For this
reason, the "cluster effect of developing countries" aligning with China's position should be "brought into full play,"
claims Sun Jisheng, vice president of the China Foreign Affairs University. $^{260}$

# Institutional Power: The New Order's Tendons

Deciding in which direction the world will head is essentially about "laying down rules for the international order and
international mechanisms," declared Xi Jinping during the fifth plenary session of the 18th Party Congress in October 2015. $^{261}$ He added that “unjust and improper arrangements in
the global governance system” need to be reformed and that “new mechanisms and rules for international economic and
financial cooperation and regional cooperation” need to be established. These tasks are crucial to assert “what roles
and functions nations will play in the long\-term systemic arrangement of the international order.” Xi advocated the
emergence of a global governance system that “represents the will and interests of a majority of countries in a more
balanced manner,” in addition to the transformation of existing international organizations to better “reflect changes
in the international landscape” and enhance the representation of the “voices of emerging and developing countries.”
$^{262}$ China’s attempt to gain greater control over international institutions and norms is described as striving for
greater “institutional power” (zhiduxing quanli). According to Chen Xiangyang, an analyst at the China Institutes of
Contemporary International Relations (CICIR), institutional power is concerned with setting the rules and the long\-term
institutional arrangements, increasing the representation and power of emerging countries within existing institutions,
and pushing forward innovative governance concepts that reflect China’s views. $^{263}$

Sun Jisheng writes that expanding the country’s institutional power means “influencing and shaping others’ behaviors,
while safeguarding our own interests through rules, procedures, systems, and norms.” China’s journey of learning and
integration has been slow, and its influence in operating international organizations, formulating international rules,
and setting international agendas has been weak. According to Sun, China can gain more institutional power by
implementing a two-pronged strategy. The first prong is transforming and reforming existing international mechanisms to
“increase the institutional discourse power of developing countries represented by China” in order to “break the
monopoly position of developed countries.” For Sun, the expansion of China’s voting rights shares within the IMF and the
World Bank is an example of its growing influence within existing institutions. She also believes that China’s ability
to “block actions and take the initiative” has developed. Second, Beijing is also improving its institutional power by
creating international institutions and organizations that China can “influence from the beginning.” Sun lists the Asian
Infrastructure Investment Bank, the Silk Road Fund, the New Development Bank, the 16+1 platform, and the China–Latin
America Forum as examples of this newfound ability to create institutions that will follow rules and agendas determined
by Beijing. $^{264}$

China is also incrementally moving from an outsider and a reformer of the existing rules to becoming a leader that takes
the initiative, controls the agenda, and sets its own rules and norms. Beijing is notably pushing in this direction in
areas where international law is still malleable—in particular in what the CCP refers to as the “strategic new
frontiers” (deep sea, polar regions, cyberspace, and outer space)—with the introduction of concepts such as “internet
sovereignty” or the creation of a “community of destiny in cyberspace.”265 The party-state is also trying to "integrate the Chinese diplomatic discourse with the existing political consensus and common values generally recognized
by the international community" $^{266}$ or, as Sun Jisheng writes, to "turn China's words into global words." $^{267}$
For this purpose, China has been expending considerable effort to ensure that its key concepts are included in UN
resolutions, favorably discussed in multilateral preparatory meetings, and endorsed in expert reports. $^{268}$ Since
March 2017, for example, the community of destiny phrase has been incorporated into five resolutions voted on by the UN
Economic and Social Council, the UN Security Council (on Afghanistan), the UN General Assembly (on the prevention of an
arms race in outer space), and the UN Human Rights Council (on economic, social and cultural rights, and rights to
food). $^{269}$ In parallel, Chinese diplomats are trying to ensconce BRI into the work of the Human Rights Council as
well as into the United Nation's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. $^{270}$ These various UN endorsements have
been relayed by Chinese media as signs of the "global recognition of China's great contribution to global governance."
$^{271}$

In addition to economic and political governance, Beijing has become more proactive in defining new norms for
international security and in trying to shape a regional security environment that counters the “negative role” played
by the U.S. alliance network in Asia. $^{272}$ China has increased its presence and clout in regional security
mechanisms where the United States is absent, such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and CICA, and has
created regional dialogue platforms such as the Beijing Xiangshan Forum on international security issues as a
counterweight to the Singapore\-based Shangri\-La Dialogue. $^{273}$ At the CICA meeting in May 2014, Xi laid the
foundation for his vision of a region free of U.S. alliances and military presence. His Asian security concept defined
security as common, which means that no country alone can deal with security challenges, especially nontraditional ones;
comprehensive, meaning that traditional and nontraditional security challenges are intertwined; cooperative, which means
that all parties must be constructive and find solutions through dialogue; and sustainable, which means that equal
importance should be given to development and security. Xi stated that “development is the foundation for security,
security is the condition of development, and only development is the overall key to solve regional problems." $^{274}$ Wang Qingzhong and Zhang Ronghua offer a
caveat to Beijing’s apparent cooperative stance by noting that, although China adheres to the path of peaceful
development, “foreign countries should not expect us to trade our core interests, nor should they expect us to swallow
the bitter fruit of damage to our sovereignty, security, and development interests.” $^{275}$ In other words, China’s
security interests, defined most broadly, overrule and take precedence over those of any other country.

In addition to using existing institutions and organizations and creating its own platforms to support its views, China
is incrementally shaping the international agenda in the direction it prefers by conducting what Sun Jisheng describes
as "home-based diplomacy." When China convenes international forums on its territory, it has more control over
participating foreign countries' willingness to endorse and sign on to Chinese ideas and norms. Sun mentions the first
South-South Human Rights Forum as a successful example of such home-based diplomacy. Organized in Beijing in December
2017 in response to recurrent Western "attacks" against China, the forum was meant to "unite developing countries around
a common language," emphasizing the "right to subsistence and development as fundamental human rights."$^{276}$ Over
three hundred representatives from 70 countries and international organizations attended the forum, which concluded with
the adoption of the Beijing Declaration that stresses the possibility for each country to foster human rights based on
national conditions.$^{277}$ The CCP in Dialogue with World Political Parties High-Level Meeting, which convened in
Beijing in December 2017, is another example of home-based diplomacy that is meant to influence and shape participants'
views so that they will endorse the CCP's agenda. The meeting was attended by over six hundred representatives of three
hundred political parties and organizations from 120 countries. The representatives visited the Central Party School,
viewed an exhibition on China's achievements under Xi's helm, and participated in seminars related to the community of
destiny and BRI.$^{278}$ The Beijing Initiative, issued at the end of the gathering, underlines China's "historic
transformations" and "new and greater contributions to the world" and highlights the responsibility of the political
parties that participated in the event in steering the world in the direction of the community of destiny's official
goals.$^{279}$

# China's Vision for a New World Order: A Partial, Loose, and Malleable Hegemony

China's attempts to alter the existing world order are very ambitious in terms of the scope and scale of efforts
deployed. Beijing's diplomacy is pushing omnidirectionally to rally supporting partners among its Asian neighbors,
emerging and developing countries, and nations along the BRI corridors. At the same time, it is working from within old
and newly created international organizations, institutions, and platforms to promote its own worldview and concepts while sidelining the existing
governance norms and values. When stripped of all the grandiloquent official rhetoric about historical trends and
contributions to the future of mankind, however, Beijing's vision for a new world order appears strikingly narrow and
parochial. It is mostly about invighing against a Western-dominated liberal order that is deemed threatening to the
CCP's survival and about altering the world to make it safer for China's unimpeded rise under the party's continuous
rule. For Wang Honggang, the director of CICIR's Institute of World Politics, shaping a new international order boils
down to breaking the Western discourse monopoly on human rights issues. China, he contends, should relentlessly promote
its own interpretation of human rights, "subtly leading other countries" to make similar changes, promoting the
evolution of the international order "in a quiet manner," carefully "cultivating strategic support points," helping
"backward countries oppose foreign interference and infiltration," and effectively preventing "color changes"—an
allusion to the color revolutions that led to democratization efforts in various countries after the end of the Cold
War.$^{280}$

Beyond indications of what is loathed, feared, and unwanted, there is no explicitly elucidated vision about how world
affairs would be managed and organized in the "new era," according to which norms and values they would be managed and
organized, and via which kinds of institutional arrangements they would operate. The only certainty that emerges is
that, in this vision, the regnant power is China. Under the surface, the Chinese elites' impatience is tangible: the
"East is rising, and the West is subsiding; the New is rising while the Old is declining"; Western dominance is
"unsustainable," and the United States "cannot afford" to maintain its hegemony.²⁸¹ Meanwhile, a "revolutionary change
is brewing, profoundly reshaping the face of the world," but the adjustments of the world order will bring "struggles"
and "uncertainties."²⁸² Western countries, "accustomed to controlling the international discourse power will not only be
unwilling to share with other countries but...also do their utmost to oppose and obstruct" the changes.²⁸³ Evidently,
the "unprecedented changes" that are coming will bring China to the top of the world. Yet ambitions of power and
domination cannot be publicly avowed. If the Chinese leadership wants to rally international support, it cannot come out
and straightforwardly acknowledge that its main priority is to erode and replace the liberal norms and democratic
governance rules that the CCP considers as threatening to its unrelenting rule and legitimacy. The leadership cannot
blatantly assert that it envisions a world in which Western influence, soft and hard power, military presence, and moral
authority have been pushed away and reduced to the margins. It cannot publicly describe what a world in which China has
"moved closer to the center stage" exactly means.

Instead, with the help of scholars and public intellectuals, the party-state is carefully honing its discourse power by
crafting concepts and proposals that sound benign and potentially appealing to a greater international audience. Who,
indeed, would refuse to endorse the noble idea of building a common future for mankind? Or who would reject the prospect
of global everlasting peace, prosperity, and security? There is only one catch: in Beijing, China's capital city, is the
most important city in the country. The CCP has made it a priority to maintain its hold on Beijing and to ensure that
the city remains under its control. This has led to increased tensions and disputes with other countries in the region.
For example, in 2019, China imposed new trade restrictions on the U.S., which resulted in a trade war between the two
countries. These restrictions have had a significant impact on the U.S. economy, leading to increased inflation and
decreased consumer spending. Additionally, the CCP's efforts to promote its culture and identity have been met with
resistance from other countries, particularly those with different historical and cultural backgrounds. For instance, in
2020, the CCP attempted to rename the street where the U.S. embassy is located, which was met with a global outcry and
backlash from the international community. These actions have further escalated the tensions between China and the U.S.
and have led to a global economic downturn. The CCP's persistent pursuit of dominance over Beijing and the rest of China
has created a complex and challenging situation for the world.

peace will not, as in the democratic peace theory that lies at the heart of the prevailing liberal concept of
international order, be born out of a belief in the primacy of individual freedom or the spread of liberal democratic
principles and universal values. According to the party's theorists, this order will be born out of a "new type of
international relations," with "win-win cooperation" and the concepts of "justice and benefit" as the core and based on
the construction of a "network of partnerships" that can ultimately form a "community of common destiny." If these terms
ring hollow, it is probably because, as Xu Zhangrun writes, since the collapse of Communist ideology, the CCP has found
itself with no real belief system, bereft of ideals and reduced to using threadbare formulations.²⁸⁴ But even if, as the
Tsinghua University professor believes, the regime's ideological heart is dead, its avid thirst for power provides
enough vitality to make it pulse and want the rest of the world to beat in unison. Instead of leadership and hegemony,
the CCP's outward-facing discourse focuses on themes such as harmony and community. These are clearly discursive
stratagems meant to avoid suspicion about the party's ambitions, but they are not completely devoid of substance. One
participant at the workshop on China's vision for a new world order noted that Beijing's choice of words reflects actual
aspirations. The words and themes carefully selected by the official rhetoric draw a virtual map of the world as seen by
Chinese elites. Instead of the liberal uniformity sought by the United States—individual liberty, free expression,
economic liberalism, and democracy—the Chinese elites envisage a world where authoritarian regimes and the prominent
role of the state are not stigmatized. To invalidate the assumption that prosperity can only be achieved with a
democratic system of government, the CCP only needs to point to its own achievements. The "China solution" can become an
appealing example for developing countries.²⁸⁵

The new international order that the Chinese political elites seem to have in mind may be defined as a partial, loose,
and malleable hegemony. It is partial because the vision seems to imply the existence of a sphere of influence, as
opposed to an ambition to "rule the world." Left unclear is the size and extent of the sphere of influence on which
China would exert its power. This order is loose because the vision does not seem to imply direct or absolute control
over foreign territories or governments. And it is malleable because the countries included under China's hegemony do
not seem to be strictly defined along geographic, cultural, or ideological lines. Immediate neighbors and far-flung
countries, Asian and non-Asian powers, and democracies and autocracies could all be included, as long as they recognize
and respect the primacy of Beijing's authority and interests.

# Conclusion

Xi Jinping has defined the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation as the "China dream." Does this mean that he considers
China's imperial past as a model for China's future as a global power? Vivienne Shue speculates that when Xi Jinping and other Party leaders today call for the "rejuvenation of the nation," what they plainly seem to want
to bring to mind is a time, before the Party had been born and before the nation had been built, a time of empire: when
China stood as an economic, technological, and cultural colossus, at the cosmopolitan core of immense networks of production and trade, skills and learning—admired, envied, deferred to—and
governing within its own realm, entirely according to its own lights.$^{286}$

The prospect of a full return of the tianxia system of yore in the form of a 21st-century China-led world order is as
far-fetched as imagining the return of feudalism from the Middle Ages as a model for European integration. Yet the
concept provides a useful organizing framework for Chinese intellectuals and officials who wish to propose a worldview
and a vision of international relations that are distinct from what they perceive as an adverse Western-led liberal
international order. It is a subtly aimed keyword that sometimes appears under the bland form of "world" in official
Chinese translations into English, and whose connotation can easily be misunderstood or overlooked by those who are not
thoroughly immersed in the Chinese culture. However, it conjures up a specific frame of reference immediately
identifiable to those who are more China-versed.²⁸⁷ In addition, the contemporary reappropriation by the party-state of
the tianxia imagery and of its selectively associated themes of harmony, virtue, and benevolence serves the leadership's
attempts to forge a benign image projectable to the outside world and help portray China's global expansion as peaceful
rather than revisionist or aggressive. Beyond these utilitarian aspects, it is also possible to see in the power
configuration that Beijing today is gradually bringing about a modern metamorphosis of the ancient system that prevailed
in East Asia for centuries.

Historically, tianxia extended over three loosely defined concentric circles: the core, under the direct control of the
emperor and his bureaucracy; the border regions, composed of settled kingdoms and vassal states under the emperor's
indirect rule that acknowledged his superiority, engaged in commercial activities, and were "content to exchange ritual
deference to China for China's assurance of autonomy";$^{288}$ and the outer confines, in which lived nomadic barbarians
too uncivilized to arouse genuine imperial interest other than the need for defense because their repeated military
raids posed the greatest security threat to the dynasty's survival. Under modern conditions, one could loosely apply the
same scheme and identify three circles, distinguishable by the degree of actual control or power of attraction wielded
by Beijing (or degree of deference granted to Beijing): the core is the party-state and mainland China, where the CCP
exerts the greatest control over politics, society, economy, and security; the border regions could include China's
immediate and broader neighborhood, extending, for example, along the Silk Road Economic Belt and the Maritime Silk
Road, which outline a geographic space where Beijing wishes to increase its strategic influence;$^{289}$ and the
outermost ring encompasses the great powers (mainly the United States), the advanced liberal democracies, and the
institutions that embody the liberal international order, which the CCP believes ultimately constitute the greatest
threat to its survival.

Official protestations notwithstanding, it seems rather clear that the CCP would like to be recognized as the center of
this ring structure on the basis of China's comprehensive national power. Not unlike emperors of past centuries, the
leadership would prefer others to look up to and acknowledge both its material and ideational superiority. If China's
past dominance over East Asia was born out of its civilizational grandeur, economic power is what today constitutes the
country's main attraction and instrument of influence over the outside world. But the increased efforts to develop China's
discourse power also reveal an ideational aspiration, a desire to be acknowledged not only for wealth and the material
power that grows out of it, but also as a guiding polestar that others can look up to, learn from, and eventually
assimilate or follow for their own sake. Technical innovations, language, philosophy, literature and arts, and the
sophisticated administrative system of ancient Chinese dynasties used to be admired, disseminated, and replicated
throughout Asia. Today, the Chinese leadership would like its algorithmic surveillance system, industrial standards, and
governance model to have a similar influence over the non-Western world. Finally, the party's diplomatic practices,
especially the high-level summits and dialogues regularly organized in China, reveal a taste for decorum and rituals
shared by ancient emperors.$^{290}$

Given the controversy attached to the term and its overuse to describe different realities, applying the tianxia label
to Beijing's vision for a future world order would probably obscure more than it illuminates. Whatever word is used to
describe it, however, the CCP's vision of a 21st-century world in which China has risen as the preponderant power has
already started to emerge in practice. Taken together, the various components of China's diplomacy under Xi—the priority
given to the creation of a foreign discourse power system, the community of common destiny, BRI, the global network of
partnerships, and the quest for institutional power—point to a vision in which China's leadership is exercised over
large portions of the "global South," a space that would be free from Western influence and largely purged of the core
liberal democratic beliefs supported by the West. The new hierarchical system, in which China would be akin to a
massive, dazzling star pulling smaller planets into its orbit without necessarily exerting direct control over them,
would not be traced along precise geographic or ideological lines. Rather, it would be defined by the degree of
deference and respect that those within China's sphere would be willing to offer Beijing. To some extent, China's
assertion of its position as the center of this parallel system is already underway.

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th style="text-align: right;">Concept/term</th><th style="text-align: right;">First known use in an
official context</th><th style="text-align: right;">Chinese (pinyin), translation</th><th style="text-align:
right;">Primary context</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: right;">Chinese spirit</td><td
style="text-align: right;">2013</td><td style="text-align: right;">Chinese spirit (Zhongguo jingshen), China's
spirit</td><td style="text-align: right;">In a 2013 speech, this term was mentioned in tandem with Xi's China dream and
national rejuvenation.</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: right;">China path</td><td style="text-align:
right;">2014</td><td style="text-align: right;">中国道路 (Zhongguo daolu), China's path</td><td style="text-align:
right;">In October 2014, Xi pointed out in "Several Issues Needing Attention in Current Work" that the CCP led the
people of all nationalities in China to create a socialist road (or path) with Chinese characteristics.</td></tr><tr><td
style="text-align: left;">Chinese wisdom</td><td style="text-align: left;">2014</td><td style="text-align: left;">中国的智慧
(Zhongguo de zhihui), China's wisdom</td><td style="text-align: left;">Originally used (per Baidu) by Xi in the context
of one country, two systems, this concept has been stretched to denote China's proposed solutions to transnational or
global governance problems.</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left;">Cultural self-confidence/Four confidences</td><td
style="text-align: left;">2014</td><td style="text-align: left;">文化自信 (wenhua zixin) / 四个自信 (si ge zixin), cultural
self-confidence/four self-confidences</td><td style="text-align: left;">In 2014, Xi added "cultural self-confidence" to
the three other political "self-confidences" (defined in the November 2012 18th Party Congress report as the country's
socialist path with Chinese characteristics, its guiding theory, and its political system or institutions). According to
Xi, "cultural confidence" represents the "unique spiritual identity of the Chinese nation" and encompasses not only
China's "excellent traditional culture" but also its "revolutionary culture" and "socialist
culture."</td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th>Concept/term</th><th>First known use in an official context</th><th>Chinese (pinyin),
translation</th><th>Primary context</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="tg-line" colspan="4"></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Two
guides</td><td>2015</td><td>两个引导 (liang ge yindao), two guides</td><td>At the February 2017 National Security Work
Conference, Xi affirmed that China should “guide” the international community to ‘jointly shape a more just and
reasonable new international order’ and “jointly safeguard international security.” In June 2018, he listed “leading the
reform of the global governance system with the concept of fairness and justice” as one of the ten priorities for
China’s diplomacy “in the new era.”</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th>&nbsp;</th><th>&nbsp;</th><th>&nbsp;</th><th>&nbsp;</th></tr><tr><th>Concept/term</th><th>First
known use in an official context</th><th>Chinese (pinyin), translation</th><th>Primary
context</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Good neighborliness</td><td>c.1989</td><td>睦邻友好 (muli youhao), amicable
neighborly relations</td><td>First use is unclear, but the concept is linked with the foreign policy of Jiang Zemin as
part of an effort to reassure China's neighbors and break out of international isolation after the Tiananmen crisis and
the Soviet Union's collapse.</td></tr><tr><td>Discourse power/International discourse power</td><td>c.1992, 2008
(official)</td><td>话语权 (huayuquan) / 国际话语权 (guoji huayuquan), discourse power/international discourse
power</td><td>Although the term appeared in the early 1990s, scholarly interest in it increased around 2008. Chinese
authors started to describe huayuquan in the context of international "distorted reports" related to the March 2008
Tibetan uprising and the Olympic torch relay incidents. It was also used to describe foreign political influence and
subversion of other countries' ability to "infiltrate the international community" through official diplomacy and "other
channels."</td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Concept/term</th><th style="text-align:
center; border: 1px solid black;">First known use in an official context</th><th style="text-align: center; border: 1px
solid black;">Chinese (pinyin), translation</th><th style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Primary
context</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Win-win cooperation</td><td
style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">2005</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid
black;">合作共赢 (hezuogongying), mutually beneficial cooperation; 互利合作 (hulihezuo), work together for mutual benefit; 共赢
(gongyíng), shared wins or win-win; 双赢 (shuangyíng), win-win (colloquial, mainly used as an adjective)</td><td
style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">The “win-win cooperation” concept was advanced in the 11th
Five-Year Plan on National Economy and Social Development passed in the fifth plenary session of the 16th CCP Central
Committee.</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Common interests</td><td
style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">2007</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid
black;">共同利益 (gongtongliyi), common interests</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">This concept
is introduced in Hu Jintao’s October 2007 report to the 17th Party Congress, which also introduced the “harmonious
world” concept.</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">China’s story/China’s
voice</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">2012</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px
solid black;">中国故事 ( Zhongguo guoshi) / 中国话语 (Zhongguo huayu), China’s story/China’s discourse</td><td
style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">The concept aims to promote Chinese views and expressions to
influence world public opinion.</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Amity, sincere,
mutual benefit, and inclusiveness</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">2013</td><td
style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">亲、诚、惠、容 (qin, cheng, hui, rong), amity, sincere, mutual benefit,
and inclusiveness</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">At the October 2013 Forum on Diplomatic
Work toward China’s Periphery, Xi and other senior leaders identified a four-part approach to guide diplomacy toward
small and medium powers centering on efforts to convey amity, sincere, mutual benefit, and
inclusiveness.</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Community of common destiny /
Community of shared future for mankind</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">2013</td><td
style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">人类命运共同体 (renleimingyun gongtongti), community of common
destiny</td><td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black;">Xi used this phrase in his March 2013 speech at the
Moscow State Institute of International Relations: “Mankind, by living in the same global village within the same time
and space where history and reality have [sic] increasingly emerged as a community of common destiny in which everyone
has in himself a little bit of others.”</td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th rowspan="2" style="text-align:center;">Concept/term</th><th colspan="3"
style="text-align:center;">Primary context</th></tr><tr><th style="text-align:center;">First known use in an official
context</th><th style="text-align:center;">Chinese (pinyin), translation</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Four
righteousnesses (speak in good faith, value comrade ship, raise justice, cultivate
righteousness)</td><td>2013</td><td>Adhering to the 'correct view of righteousness and interests' was first proposed by
Xi during his visit to three African countries in March 2013. In October of the same year, he stated at the Forum on
Diplomatic Work toward China's Periphery that, to deal with foreign relations, China must 'find the common points and
intersections of interests and adhere to the correct view of justice and interests.' At the end of 2014, Xi
re-emphasized this principle at the Central Conference on Work Related to Foreign Affairs.</td></tr><tr><td>Wide
consultation, joint contribution, and shared benefits</td><td>2013</td><td>Although China often invoked principles of
mutuality prior to BRI (e.g., the SCO's founding charter describes the "Shanghai spirit" as 'mutual trust, mutual
benefit, equality, joint consultations, respect for cultural diversity, and aspiration for collective development'),
this specific formula emerges and enters China's foreign policy lexicon with the initiative's launch in
2013.</td></tr><tr><td>Common, comprehensive, cooperative, sustainable</td><td>2014</td><td>This phrase is generally
attached to Xi's new security concept. At the 2014 summit of CICA, Xi said that China should 'actively advocate a
common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable Asia security concept, innovate safety concepts, and build a new
regional security and cooperation framework'.</td></tr><tr><td>Innovation, coordination, green development, openness,
and sharing</td><td>2015</td><td>This concept is introduced in the 13th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social
Development adopted by the fifth plenary session of the 18th CCP Central Committee in October
2015.</td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

<html>
<table><thead><tr><th>&nbsp;</th><th>&nbsp;</th><th>&nbsp;</th></tr><tr><th>Concept/term</th><th>First known use in an
official context</th><th>Chinese (pinyin), translation</th><th>Primary context</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Builder
of world peace, contributor to global development, protector of international
order</td><td>2017</td><td>世界和平的建设者、全球发展的贡献者、国际秩序的维护者（shijie helping de jiansheze, quanqiuzhafazhan de gongxianzhe,
guojizhixu de weihuzhe）, builder of world peace, contributor of global development, upholder of the international
order</td><td>The concept appears in Xi's October 2017 report to the 19th Party Congress. It is used to denote the
Chinese contribution (Zhongguo gongxian) to international security and development. For example, a National People's
Congress statement on "Advancing the International Order through China's Contribution" asserts that "China has
throughout time been a builder of world peace, promoter of global development, and defender of international
order".</td></tr><tr><td>Equality, mutual understanding, dialogue, and
tolerance</td><td>2018</td><td>平等、互鉴、对话、包容（pingdeng, hu jian, duihua, baorang）, equality, mutual reflection, dialogue,
tolerance</td><td>The first use is unclear, but this phrase is employed in the context of dialogue among
civilizations.</td></tr><tr><td>Frank consultation, sincere communication, in-depth exchange, mutual
learning</td><td>2019</td><td>坦诚协商、真诚沟通、深入交流、互学互鉴（tancheng xiechang, zhengcheng goutong, shenru jiaoliu, hu xue hu
jian）, frank consultation, sincere communication, in-depth exchange, mutual learning</td><td>The concept appears to have
been used for the first time in its entirety in 2019. For example, at the opening ceremony of the China-France Global
Governance Forum in March 2019, Wang Yi said that "frank consultation, sincere communication, in-depth exchange, mutual
learning" is the first step in the process of reforming global governance institutions.</td></tr></tbody></table>
</html>

NBR THE NATIONAL BUREAU of ASIAN RESEARCH

S