# Title: "The study of the military, the study of war, the study of warfare," the monograph⼁How to develop the concept of warfare

By 杨凡凡 
Publish Date:  13 Apr 2022 

Authors: Li Junsheng, Liu Qiang, Dai Xuejiao

Introduction

The operational concept is an important theoretical grip for forward-looking design of future warfare and leading
military construction and preparation, which originates from war preparation and is tested by war practice. In essence,
the concept of operations development is based on the evolution of warfare, frontier technology development, combat
opponents and changes in the counter environment, for strategic, operational, tactical different levels of operational
problems, the design of methods and strategies and capabilities to support the optimization of the program, following
the basic paradigm of "operational problems $+$ methods and strategies $+$ capabilities to support".

"Three layers and three segments" operational concept development architecture

Operational concept development is a systematic project. According to the level of the operational problem, the
operational concept can be divided into three levels: top-level concept, operational concept, and support concept, and
each concept design goes through three stages of operational problem analysis, method and strategy design, and
capability support demonstration, i.e., the "three levels and three stages" operational concept development
architecture.

From a hierarchical point of view, the top-level concept mainly plans and designs the warfare concept and overall
warfare method for maintaining national strategic security and expanding interests; the operational concept mainly
outlines and designs the operational concept and campaign warfare method for specific operational directions and fields;
and the supporting concept mainly refines and designs the engagement scenarios and tactical procedures for conducting
combat operations.

From the stage, in the operational problem identification phase, the main threat challenges are examined and the list of
operational problems is sorted out. The focus is on standardizing the description of operational space-time, operational
adversaries, operational threats, environmental posture, mission tasks, and other content to form the background
elements of the operational concept. In the methodological strategy design phase, focus on the list of operational
problems and design the preferred solution to the problem. The focus is on the operational concept, the standardized
description of the connotation of the key meaning, the mechanism of victory, combat scenarios, operational methods of
warfare, interaction, support conditions, etc., to form the operational concept of the elements of use. In the
demonstration phase of capability support, for the preferred option, mapping analysis of the ability to support the
needs of combat operations. The focus is to standardize the description of construction needs, capability indicators,
ways to achieve, etc., to form the support elements of the operational concept.

Adhere to the problem-oriented, to identify the largest combat pain points

The concept of warfare is the starting point for the development of the concept of warfare. The core work of operational
problem analysis is to adhere to the targeted problem-oriented, accurate research and judgment of the objective
existence of the main threat, systematic analysis of the core tasks undertaken by the main combatant, thorough sorting
of the key issues that need to be addressed, the direction of the development of the operational concept off.

Threat Research. Combining the military strategic guidance, combat force deployment and frontier technology development
of both sides of the confrontation, we study and analyze the threats and challenges faced by different levels of
military subjects in carrying out their missions according to the conceptual scenarios of strategic games and military
confrontation. For the strategic level, based on the opponent's national security strategy, national defense policy, military strategy, etc.,
the strategic threats to the expansion of the national security and interests of the own side in the long term are
analyzed. For the battle level, based on the strategic game and military confrontation trends, combined with the
operational guidance and rules of engagement of both sides, determine the possible operational threats in various
directions and fields of battle operations. For the tactical level, based on the quality and performance of weapons and
equipment of both sides, we study the typical battlefield confrontation environment and winning strategies, and identify
the engagement threats faced in specific spatial and temporal engagement scenarios.

Categorize the mission. Based on the national security and development strategy, national defense strategy, military
strategy, etc., combined with global political, economic, military, and diplomatic situation changes, study and analyze
the overall war concept, typical operational scenarios and specific combat scenarios, and confirm the mission tasks of
military subjects at different levels. For the strategic level, we will comprehensively consider the strategic threats
and challenges faced, combine the current trends in the development of military power and strategic deployments of both
sides, and generally position the future long-term core strategic missions and the overall concept of future warfare.
For the battle level, comprehensive consideration of the possible operational threats in each direction and field,
combined with the layout of the military force battlefield, decomposition of the future medium and long-term operational
concept and the main operational tasks. For the tactical level, according to the battlefield threats faced by a specific
time and space engagement, combined with the use of combat forces and weapons and equipment development, refining the
engagement scenarios and specific combat operations in different time and space.

The problem of military problems. According to the degree of impact of threats and challenges, the main contradictions
and key needs of military problems are grasped, and a list of military problems that need to be solved by military
subjects at different levels is formed. For the strategic level, focusing on the strategic game, to affect the overall
situation of the strategy, determine the success or failure of the war, involving long-term development as the point,
around the seizure of the initiative in war, sorting out the list of issues to carry out strategic missions. For the
battle operation, to affect the overall situation of the battle, determine the battlefield victory or defeat, involving
the system development as the standard, around the seizure of the battlefield control, sorting out the formation of
combat mission of the list of issues. Focus on tactical confrontation, to affect the battlefield engagement, determine
the battlefield victory or defeat, involving the development of elements as the standard, around the seizure of combat
control, sorting out the formation of a list of problems in attempting combat activities.

Adhere to the effect-oriented, select the optimal use of the program

Methodology and strategy is the core fulcrum of operational concept development. The core work of methodological
strategy design is to adhere to the effect of optimal energy efficiency orientation, analysis and assessment of
capability gaps, custom design strategies and methods of warfare, the best selection of the best options, and the
utility of the operational concept development off.

Find the breaking point. For strategic, campaign, tactical different subjects to carry out the task facing the threat
conditions, corresponding analysis of the war system, combat system, operational design on the two sides of the current
analysis of military power, in the dynamic integrated game to seek symmetric, asymmetric or both breakthrough point of
victory. For strategic adversaries, macro analysis of the "total potential difference" in the comprehensive strength of
the war system between the two sides, based on the overall victory, from the perspective of the overall planning and use
of war resources to seek a breakthrough point to win the strategic initiative. For the combat system, analysis and
measurement of the two sides of the combat system "capacity difference", based on the system to win, from the
perspective of the planning and use of combat forces to seek to win the initiative of the entry point. For the warring
opponents weapons and equipment entities, directional analysis of the two sides against the nodes of the "technical
difference", based on means of winning, from the perspective of weapons and technology integrated planning and use to
seek to win the tactical initiative of the starting point.

Set strategy. According to the current capability gaps and future technological development possibilities, deep study of
the inner laws of winning future intelligent warfare, based on the use of existing forces and new weapons development,
proactive design, customizing different levels of the solution strategy set. For the strategic level, focus on the laws
of war, focus on "what war to fight", build an agile anti-destructive network as the core, research and propose
strategic guidance and overall tactics set under different war concepts, forming a top-level concept. For the campaign
level, focus on the study of combat winning mechanism, around the "how to fight the war", to penetrate the land, sea,
air and sky network kill chain as the core, research and propose different operational concepts under the set of
operational methods of warfare, the formation of the concept of action. For the tactical level, focus on the study of
the rules of engagement, targeting "how to protect", to support the kill chain "detection - control - resistance - fight
- evaluation "nodes as the core, research and propose different engagement scenarios under the set of operational
processes, the formation of support concepts.

Solution Selection. Based on various dimensions, the strategy ensemble is evaluated and analyzed to select the best
solution that is consistent with the national military strategic objectives and has good support and realization
possibilities under the constraints of technology, economy, and time. For the top-level concept, the best solution is
selected according to the matching degree of military strategy, the support degree of core mission tasks, and the
traction degree of military force development; for the operation concept, the best solution is selected according to the support degree of major combat tasks and the enhancement degree of system
capability; for the support concept, the best solution is selected according to the matching degree of equipment
technology development, the support degree of major engagement activities, and the efficiency-cost ratio. For the
support concept, the focus is on the degree of matching with the development of equipment technology, the degree of
support for the main engagement activities, and the best program according to the efficiency ratio.

Adhere to the goal-oriented, set the actual construction needs

The concept of combat is based on the support of the development of the concept. The core work of the demonstration of
capability support is to adhere to the goal-oriented grasp of building for warfare, stratified by the construction needs
of the domain research, unified and refined capability indicators, design development roadmap and construction drawings,
to keep the support of the development of the concept of warfare.

Research and propose requirements. Refine different levels of capability requirements for different levels of
operational concepts and targeting. For the top-level concept, focus on warfare capability requirements, decompose and
form the overall development requirements of the country and the military in different areas at different times. For the
operational concept, focus on the operational capability requirements, around the force, equipment, training and other
aspects, research and propose the system construction requirements in various fields and directions. For the support
concept, focus on the requirements of the engagement function, refine the equipment and technology construction
requirements to directly support the engagement.

Consolidation of indicators. According to the capability requirements, combine the existing system construction and
medium and long-term construction and development planning, refine the capability indicators of corresponding levels,
and unify to form the echelon construction indicators. In response to the top-level concept capability needs, in
accordance with the overall development requirements, the top-level national and military indicators on the quantitative
scale of war resources and strategic capability level construction are formed. For the operational concept capability
needs, in accordance with the system construction requirements, the quantitative indicators of the scale structure and
operational capability level of the combat system in each field and direction are formed. For the support concept
capability needs, according to the equipment and technology construction needs, combined to form the quantitative
indicators of the scale structure of the means of combat and core engagement functions.

Planning Development. Design development plans for combat forces, weapons and equipment, and key technologies in a
progressive manner, taking as basic constraints the degree of combat effectiveness satisfaction, development time frame
adequacy, resource security, and technology maturity. For the top-level concept capability indicators, around the
establishment of national and military development strategies, consider strategic relevance, development sustainability,
etc., and design the overall construction blueprint to effectively support mission tasks. For the operational concept
capability indicators, around the development of medium- and long-term construction planning, taking into account
operational urgency, capability continuity, etc., design the roadmap for the construction of capabilities in various
fields and directions to effectively support operational tasks. For the support concept capability indicators, around
the development of a certain stage of the construction plan, taking into account the intensity of the engagement,
capability support, etc., to design the construction of equipment technology development to effectively support the
engagement activities.

(Author's unit: Rocket Research Institute)

# 群策集

# 作战概念究竟如何开发

#

作成概念是前设计来来成争，引领军国地设备族的重要理论排干，它源于属争准备，并受域争实践检验城本质上看，作题念开发是于成分形态演变，前站技术辑.作战对手和抗环模的变化，计对，成役藏术不网县次的作演，或方读最略和能方文排方案的设计优化，遵储作成问题+方读第略+能力文称”的本

# 坚持效果导向，选准最优运用方案

# 坚持目标导向，定准实际建设需求

#