# The Persistent, Soaring Ambitions of Xi Jinping’s “New Era” for China, Socialism, and the Globe

Daniel Tobin, Professor of Practice, National Intelligence University

The first Trump administration inaugurated a period of open, global strategic rivalry with the People’s Republic of
China (PRC), and the Biden administration sustained it.1 As of this writing, it is too early to say how the leaders of
the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)2 see the contest’s long-term trajectory in light of the new domestic and international
policies of the second Trump administration.3 It is possible, however, to revisit the continuity and expansiveness of
the CCP’s ambitions under Xi Jinping, whose tenure as paramount leader since late 2012 has now spanned four US
administrations. The foundation of Beijing’s official ideology of “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese
Characteristics for a New Era” (hereafter “Xi Jinping Thought”) is its title concept that the PRC’s successful
development over several decades has raised its wealth, power, and status, allowing Chinese socialism to “enter a new
era” with implications for the future of: (1) China and the Chinese nation, (2) world socialism, and (3) the development
of human society (by which Beijing means global politics). In each of these areas, Xi has announced soaring objectives
that he has expressed with even more sweepingly ambitious language over time. While many in Washington have awoken to
the ‘hard power’ dimensions of the contest (military, economic, technological, etc.), and some to Beijing’s aim of
rewiring the international order, few acknowledge the ideological dimensions or the centrality of the concept of the
“new era” as the driver of Xi’s posture in all three areas. This article seeks to fill that gap.

Why pay attention to the CCP’s ideology at all? During the Cold War, an intellectual community complete with English
language journals devoted itself to analyzing the Soviet Union’s ideology and examining the evolution of Moscow’s
official worldview and its relationship to policy.4 Today, there is no parallel community focused on unpacking Beijing’s
ideology; yet, in recent years, a growing number of external observers have rediscovered the value of CCP leadership
speeches and policy documents as a vehicle for understanding the PRC’s intentions and actions. This is indeed the
correct starting place. Owing to the CCP’s Leninist heritage, it uses ideology expressed in these venues as its
instrument to depict, modify, and mobilize around its long-term goals, view of the external environment, and the
policies designed to navigate toward its objectives. Further, as Timothy Heath, Rush Doshi, and others note, the content
of Beijing’s ideology is the result of elaborate, multiyear processes by which its assessments are formulated and
coordinated. Ideology thus has bureaucratic force because the PRC’s institutions must frame and justify their work in
its terms. Finally, the CCP spends enormous resources explicating its ideology to its own officials, forcing them to
study it and identify how they are applying it in their areas of responsibility.5 The oceans of ink and forests of books
produced for this purpose are available and should facilitate summary by external observers.

Nevertheless, it is traditional in English language academic writing on CCP ideology to bemoan the challenge of
interpretation.6 Explicating Beijing’s ideology involves summarizing concepts written in what will be, for most readers,
two foreign tongues: first, the Chinese language, and second, the party’s conceptual language derived from the Soviet
Union’s Marxist-Leninist “newspeak.” To succeed, one must sail narrowly between two challenges. On the one hand is the
Scylla of translating the concepts in a way that one’s readers can digest, but which threatens to focus on what the
observer cares about rather than what Beijing does and thus utterly distorts the party’s original ideas. On the other is
the Charybdis of depicting all of the CCP’s concepts with their original logic and yet drowning the reader who lacks the
context the party’s cadres possess to make sense of them.7 Unfortunately, most English language scholarship on Xi’s
political thought as of this writing has been dismembered by Scylla, and some manages to both be torn apart by Scylla
and drowned by Charybdis at the same time. While several recent volumes are useful in their summaries of Xi’s policies
in particular areas in specific chapters, their arguments about the overall meaning of Xi Jinping Thought do not reflect
summaries of Beijing’s own explanations. Crucially, they bury the central concept that animates Xi Jinping Thought and
provides unity to its many parts.8 This neglected idea is the ideology’s title notion of “the new era.”9 In contrast,
while the present essay is not a comprehensive summary of Xi Jinping Thought, or even of the implications of the new era
for strategy and policy in all of the major policy areas Xi Jinping Thought addresses, it begins by exploring the
overall meaning of the new era.10 Afterwards, it traces how the ambitions Xi articulated for the new area in each of
three major areas have evolved over his tenure in office. Owing to the central role that Party Congresses play in
consolidating and promulgating changes to the CCP’s guiding ideology, the article is anchored in the 19th Party Congress
held in 2017— the first Xi presided over as incumbent general secretary and at which he announced Xi Jinping Thought—and
the 20th Party Congress in 2022. It also addresses how Xi’s first five-year term 2012-2017 set the stage for these
ambitions.11

# Setting the Stage: The “New Era” as a Change in China’s Power and Status

Below is the passage Xi uses in his 19th Party Congress report to set the context for his proclamation of the “new era”
[emphasis added] 12 :

In the early days of reform and opening up, the Party made a clarion call for us to take a path of our own and build
socialism with Chinese characteristics. Since that time, the Party has united and led the country’s people of all
nationalities in a tireless struggle, propelling our country into a leading position in terms of economic and

technological strength, defense capabilties, and comprehensive national power Our country's international standing has
risen as never before. The face of our Party, the face of our country, the face of our people, the face of our military
forces, and the face of our Chinese nationality have changed in ways without precedent. The Chinese nation, with an
entirely new posture, now stands tall and firm in the East. With decades of hard work, socialism with Chinese
characteristics has crossed the threshold into a new era. This is a new historic juncture in our country's development.

This is what socialism with Chinese characteristics entering a new era means: The Chinese nation, which since modern
times began had endured so much for so long, has achieved a tremendous transformation: t has stood up, become better off
and grown in strength; it has come to embrace the brilliant prospects of rejuvenation."13

This passage sets up the first of the new era’s three interrelated meanings, namely, that the new era reflects a new
Chinese “posture” in the world due to the CCP’s progress over several decades making the PRC a leading country in the
world by many measures. In official study guides on Xi Jinping Thought, Beijing underlines the breathtaking nature of
this change.14 Put simply, China’s success constitutes a change of conditions for its place in the world. The passage
below, from the Central Propaganda Department’s 2021 volume, Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese
Characteristics for a New Era Study Questions & Answers, is typical language:

We have completed the industrialization process that took developed countries hundreds of years in just a few decades,
creating a miracle of rapid economic development and long-term social stability that is rare in the world, making the
impossible possible, promoting an unprecedented improvement in our country’s comprehensive national power and
international status, and promoting an unprecedented improvement in the living standards of our people. Since the 18th
CPC National Congress, nearly 100 million people in our country have been lifted out of poverty, and the problem of
absolute poverty that has plagued the Chinese nation for thousands of years come to an historical conclusion, thus
writing a great legend in the history of human development, and proving with irrefutable facts that socialism with
Chinese characteristics is true socialism.15

As the last sentence of this passage suggests, the CCP insists that this success is due to its navigating according to
“socialism with Chinese characteristics” (i.e., the post-Mao reform era policies consolidated at the 13th Party Congress
in 1987).16 The change in China’s position, owing to its achievements, however, presents the CCP with a different set of
governance challenges at home and abroad that flow from these new conditions. This is the second major meaning of the
“new era,” though it will not be a focus of this essay.17 Xi Jinping Thought is explicitly not a departure from
socialism with Chinese characteristics, but a comprehensive adjustment for the conditions brought about by its success
thus far.18

The changes Xi Jinping Thought makes to socialism with Chinese characteristics are designed and framed in terms of
completing the navigation towards long-term goals for China’s development and status identified by the 1980s.19 In the
third meaning of the new era and the major focus of the present essay, the new era is to be a period in which the CCP’s
long-held ambitions for China are fulfilled.

In the first chapter of Xi’s 19th Party Congress report quoted from earlier, after discussing the implications of the
new era for the status of international socialism (discussed below) and providing a portrait of what the new era will
bring in terms of the PRC’s long-term development goals, he heralds a greater role for China in the world, maintaining
that: “It will be an era that sees China moving closer to center stage and making greater contributions to humanity.” In
Chinese this is literally “center of the world stage.”20 After discussing what the new era means for the PRC’s domestic
governance challenges, Xi summarily concludes this section with the following: [numbers and emphasis added]:

Chinese socialism’s entrance into a new era is, [1] in the history of the People’s Republic of China and the history of
the Chinese nation, of tremendous importance. [2] In the history ofinternational socialism and [3] the history of human
society, t is of tremendous importance. Our entire Party should develop unshakable confidence, work hard and work well
to see socialism with Chinese characteristics display even stronger vitality.21

Over the course of his tenure as paramount leader, Xi has articulated the CCP’s objectives to be realized in the new era
in each of these three areas extensively. In all three areas, the logic of Beijing’s aspirations predated Xi, and they
would likely endure his departure from the political stage. At a minimum (though this is not detailed in this essay),
they are embedded, through the party’s ideology, in its institutions through resources, strategy, and policy. They are
discussed in an avalanche of official study guides on Xi Jinping Thought and in articles in the party’s flagship
newspaper, The People's Daily, n its theoretical journal, Seeking Truth, and in the several volumes of speeches by Xi
Jinping titled The 22 The remainder of this essay will examine the implications of the new era asserted at the 19th
Party Congress in each of these three areas, beginning with how Xi had foreshadowed those ambitions during his first
five-year term from 2012, and concluding with how the 20th Party Congress in 2022, which elevated Xi to a third
five-year term, doubled down on and expressed them in even more expansive terms.23

# 1) Ambitions for the PRC and the Chinese Nation: Become the Global Leader

“The great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation” is the principal theme of the 19th Party Congress. Xi emphasizes it twice
on the first page of his address, where he describes it as the CCP’s “original aspiration.”24 A dramatic early passage
in Xi’s report further reframes each major period of the party’s history as having been aimed at realizing national
rejuvenation.25 While he is not the first PRC leader to use the phrase, Xi has made it familiar to even the most casual
observer of Chinese politics. He famously put national rejuvenation in the foreground at the dawn of his tenure as top
leader. In a November 29, 2012 speech on the “China Dream” at the PRC’s National Museum, Xi asserts: “In my opinion,
achieving the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation has been the greatest dream of the Chinese people since the advent of
modern times.”26 Both Xi’s inaugural address delivered two weeks earlier (upon his selection as general secretary) and
his speech to the new politburo on the spirit of the 18th Party Congress two days after that, reinforce this
prioritization of national rejuvenation. In the latter speech, Xi further frames the party’s commitment to socialism
with Chinese characteristics as an instrument for realizing the “main objective” of national rejuvenation:

We pay close attention to the main objective because the Communist Party of China has shouldered the historic mission of
rejuvenating the Chinese nation ever since its birth. The very purpose of the Party in leading the Chinese people in
revolution, development, and reform is to make the people prosperous and the country strong, and rejuvenate the Chinese
nation.27

Crucially, this passage links the goal of rejuvenating the Chinese nation (⺠族, literally nationality) with the goals of
making the country wealthy (“the people prosperous”) and the state powerful (“the country strong”). Xi frames this as a
common denominator aspiration of Chinese “since modern times began,” and Beijing’s consistent linking of the status of
the Chinese nation with the development and strength of the country is indeed a position diverse Chinese nationalist
thinkers prior to the CCP taking power such as Liang Qichao and Sun Yat-sen also endorsed in the face of China’s late
19th and early 20th century weakness.28 Xi makes clear in his inaugural address, however, that the ambition is not
merely to overcome China’s 19th and 20th century economic backwardness and weakness, but rather national rejuvenation
also means attaining a position of leadership where China can “make contributions” to humankind. In describing taking on
responsibility for the nation, he maintains [emphasis added]:

Ours is a great nation. Throughout 5,000 years of development, the Chinese nation has made significant contributions to
the progress of human civization. Since the advent of modern times, our nation has gone through untold tribulations and
faced its greatest perils. Countless people with lofty ideals rose up for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, but
each time they failed. After it was founded in 1921, the Communist Party of China rallied and led the Chinese people in
making great sacrifices, forging ahead against all odds, and transforming poor and backward China into an increasingly
prosperous and strong nation, thus opening completely new horizons for national rejuvenation.

Our responsibility is to rally and lead the entire Party and the people of all China’s ethnic groups in taking on this
task and continuing to pursue the goal of the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, so that China can stand firm and
strong among the world's nations and make new and greater contributions to mankind.29

This discussion about standing firm and strong among the world’s nations and about making greater contributions to
humankind (both of which are paralleled in Xi’s 19th Party Congress report’s language about the new era noted above)
also echoes the language and aspirations of both Mao Zedong and (discussed below) Xi’s post-Mao “reform era”
predecessors.30 Indeed, in the 2012 “China Dream” speech Xi directly quotes Mao’s expansive poetry.31 In that context
too, Xi clearly means to identify national rejuvenation not simply with overcoming China’s 19th and early 20th century
economic backwardness and weakness, but also with moving the PRC into a leading position in the world where others look
up to and learn from China. This has been a consistent ambition for the PRC’s leaders.

Mao, on the threshold of the 8th Party Congress in 1956, at which Beijing would claim to have established a socialist
system and to be now embarking on a modernization drive designed to win the race with capitalism (and intended to echo
Stalin’s similar claim in 1936), had framed the PRC’s ambition to catch up with and pass in the United States as an
imperative owing to China’s superior endowments of people and other resources and to (he alleged) the superiority of its
socialist system.32 Further, Mao had maintained that if the PRC failed to do so in fifty years it “should be read off
the face of the earth” (literally, “your membership should be expelled from the globe,” 从地球上开除你的球籍).33

Mao’s economic policies that followed produced famine and disaster instead and the 1956 speech tends to be remembered in
English language histories of the PRC as hubristic. Nevertheless, as William Callahan notes in a 2015 essay, in recent
decades the speech has remained popular among PRC intellectuals for its aspiration of catching and passing the United
States.34 Surely, Xi’s invocation of this language both at the opening of his tenure and in his description of the
meaning of the “new era” is no accident. Indeed, perhaps the most prominent study guide on Xi Jinping Thought published
by the Central Propaganda Department in February 2021 and serialized in The People’s Daily that same summer, quotes
(without attribution, but known to its readership) a speech by Xi in July 2016 on the party’s 95th anniversary, where he
foreshadowed the 19th Party Congress’ claims about China’s transformed status and directly identified the change as
overcoming the danger of being “removed from the globe” (被开除球籍, echoing Mao’s language). Below is the study guide’s text
[emphasis added]:

Over the past century, the great victory achieved by the Chinese people under the leadership of the Communist Party of
China on the road to national rejuvenation has enabled the Chinese nation with a civilizational history of more than
5,000 years to move towards modernization in an all-round way, and has given new vitality to Chinese civilization in the
process of modernization; it has enabled the socialist proposition with a history of more than 500 years 35 to
successfully open up a correct path with high realism and feasibility in the world’s most populous country, and has
given new vitality to scientific socialism in the 21st century; it has enabled the construction of New China with a
history of more than 70 years to achieve world-renowned achievements. China, the world’s largest developing country, has
escaped poverty and leapt into the world's second largest economy in just over 30 years, completely getting rid of the
danger of being "removed from the globe,"creating a shocking development miracle in the history of human society, and
giving new vitality to the Chinese nation.36

Indeed, if triumph over Mao’s fear of extinction should the PRC fail to become the leading country is one of the
contexts Xi invokes here, so is the consistent ambition of Mao and his reform era successors to catch and pass the most
advanced capitalist country (the United States). Since 1992, the CCP’s constitution has maintained that [emphasis
added]: “The general starting point and criteria for judging each item of the Party’s work are that it must benefit the
development of the socialist productive forces, be conducive to increasing socialist China’s comprehensive national 37 A
key underpinning of the assessment that “socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era” is Beijing’s view
of the change in its relative status vs. other great powers in terms of the CCP’s evaluation of comprehensive national
power (综合国⼒), a term that has appeared in several of the passages quoted thus far.

Comprehensive national power is a PRC measure that includes not only military and economic strength, but also what
Western scholars would likely regard as more difficult to measure elements such as diplomatic strength. While the
concept of comprehensive national power dates to the 1980s, and continuous, high-level references to it down to this day
indicate its importance, Beijing obscures the term in foreign language versions of its official documents by translating
it in several ways. (Neither the party nor government disclose how official calculations are conducted).38 Nevertheless,
the imperative to build comprehensive national power provides a link between the baldly expressed ambitions of the Mao
and Xi eras and the more outwardly modest reform era between them. Xi’s invocation of the change in China’s
comprehensive national power as a driver of the judgment that socialism with Chinese characteristics had entered a new
era underscores that prudence about the PRC’s relative strength, not a dip in its ambitions, underpinned the more modest
stance between Mao and Xi.39 Further, when, at the 19th Party Congress, Xi returned to openly expressing the PRC’s
ambitions in terms of relative great power status, he did so by accelerating the timeline for China’s mid-century
modernization targets and expressing the new targets in terms of comprehensive national power. Comprehensive national
power, then, is both an end and a means to achieving the PRC’s overall goal of national rejuvenation.40

Xi’s 19th Party Congress report pins objectives previously associated with “mid-century” to 2035 and advances new, more
expansive goals for the PRC’s 100th anniversary in 2049.41 He explicitly called for the PRC to become “a country with
leading comprehensive national power and international influence” (综合国⼒和国际影响⼒领先的国家: this is a rare case where the
official English translation is more aggressive, rendering the phrase: “a global leader in terms of

composite national strength and international influence”).42 In other words, the goal is not just to become a developed,
modern strong country in absolute terms, but also a leading country in comparison with others. Indeed, while some
external observers have rushed to point out that the official translation says a global leader not the global leader, it
strains credibility that, already seeing itself as the number two power in the world as measured in computations of
comprehensive national power, Beijing’s goal could be to work hard for several decades only to remain number two.43 In
specific areas of international competition including economics, science and technology, innovation, and military
capabilities, Xi repeatedly talks about “seizing the initiative,” and the need for China not to miss another historical
opportunity to assume leadership.44 Indeed, a 2021 People’s Daily editorial under the pseudonym “Manifesto” (宣⾔), which
Beijing has used several times to express the ambitions of the new era, maintains that “Gaining the upper hand in the
competition of comprehensive national power is the key to national rejuvenation.”45

The breadth with which Beijing’s expresses its expansive ambitions for global leadership, however, has only widened
since the 19th Party Congress. This is extremely clear from the party’s official documents; yet it is not widely
discussed among external observers. Many instead focus on language in Xi’s report to the 20th Party Congress outlining a
darker external environment and highlighting the need for technological self-reliance and food security. Crucially, the
20th Party Congress was the first in the wake of both COVID-19 and the advent of more open rivalry with Washington, and
it would have been surprising if these developments did not elicit more discussion of threats to the PRC’s security.46
Yet this impression of a turn towards security has likely contributed to the idea, prevalent for at least a year prior
to the United States’ November 2024 presidential election, that Beijing was on its heels owing to domestic economic
problems, would likely never pass the United States economically, and that the PRC’s leaders ought to be scaling back
their ambitions.47 The overall tone of Xi’s address to the 20th Party Congress, however, is not that of a besieged party
leader climbing into a bunker. On the contrary, Xi’s language indicates he is doubling down on, not decelerating, the
CCP’s pursuit of its goals.

The key message of the 20th Party Congress is the “new journey” to build “a modern socialist country in all respects and
advance the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts.”48 In addition to reaffirming the 19th Party
Congress’ acceleration of the PRC’s long-term development targets, the 20th refines the 2035 targets and adds targets
for 2027.49 The “new journey” is specifically the effort to navigate towards the party’s “second centenary goal”
modernization and development targets and targets for relative comprehensive national power (pinned to the 100th
anniversary of the PRC’s founding in 2049) after achieving its “first centenary goal” (pinned to the party’s 100th
anniversary in 2021). Indeed, while Beijing clearly regards the security environment it faces as having darkened, this
reflects, as mentioned, the advent of open US-PRC global strategic rivalry. CCP leaders had long predicted this would
arrive as the PRC’s comprehensive national power grew.50 In this sense, what Beijing perceives as US efforts to contain
the PRC do not indicate failure but instead herald the CCP’s success. This, in turn, is reflected in the even more
expansive expressions of Beijing’s ambitions at the 20th Party Congress compared to the 19th, not only for China’s
status, but also for its role in vindicating socialism and for its role as a global leader. Here is how Xi frame’s his
20th Party Congress objectives for China’s status and for its leading humanity: “Since its founding a century ago, the
Communist Party of China has taken a remarkable journey. Our Party has dedicated itself to achieving lasting greatness
for the Chinese nation and committed itself to the noble cause of peace and development for humanity. Our responsibility
is unmatched in importance, and our mission is glorious beyond compare.”51

This latter theme of the PRC’s global role is examined later in this essay, however, at least as significant for
understanding the nature of U.S.-PRC strategic rivalry is the CCP’s goal of vindicating “scientific socialism”
(MarxismLeninism) and its international status.

# 2) Ambitions for Socialism: Reversing its World Status vs. Capitalism

Of the three areas of ambition associated with the new era, Beijing’s objectives for socialism remain the most obscure
for most observers writing in English. If many now acknowledge the PRC’s goal of becoming the leading power in the world
and its aim to rewire the international order so that it functions on values aligned with the CCP, few wrestle with Xi’s
insistence that he is a Marxist, and there is plenty of disagreement about whether he deserves that title.52 The present
essay is not the space to unpack the ways in which Xi Jinping Thought contains orthodox Marxist-Leninist political
ideas; yet from Washington’s standpoint it ought to matter that Xi has been relentlessly consistent in framing the PRC
as engaged in a systems contest with capitalism, where the CCP’s ability to navigate China to the status of the leading
country in the world has implications for the rivalry between socialism and capitalism. A key plank of socialism with
Chinese characteristics has been the party’s consistent claim that “only socialism can save China” and party leaders
have consistently vowed to demonstrate socialism’s superiority to vindicate the PRC’s “choice” of socialism.53 Yet,
Beijing has consistently nursed broader ambitions than this.

In his 19th Party Congress speech, Xi famously declared of the new era that [emphasis added]:

It means that scientific socialism is full of vitality in 21st century China, and that the banner of socialism with
Chinese characteristics is now flying high and proud for all to see. It means the path, the theory, the system, and the
culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics have kept developing, blazing a new trail for other developing
countries to achieve modernization.It offers a new option for other countries and nations who want to speed up their
development while preserving their independence: and it offers Chinese wisdom and a Chinese approach to solving the
problems facing humanity.54

Here, “scientific socialism” is a traditional reference to Marxism, owing to Marx and Engel’s claim that their version
of socialism was based on scientific theory as opposed to utopian vision. Since the 19th Party Congress, however, the
CCP has begun to assert that Xi Jinping Thought constitutes “21st century Marxism,” and that the PRC’s success offers
other developing countries the prospect of an alternative path to modernity and development over and against that of the
developed capitalist democracies.

Like Beijing’s ambitions for global leadership discussed above, Xi’s discussion of the new era status of the PRC’s
“choice” of “socialism” is a dramatic departure from the language of his post-Mao predecessors. Prior to 2016, the
weight of Beijing’s post-Mao arguments domestically and internationally justifying its commitment to socialism were
defensive, claiming that socialism was the solution to China’s specific conditions and problems.55 The socialist system
(including the party’s dictatorship), Beijing also insisted, was the only system capable of realizing the ambitions of
the Chinese nation to transform its status in the world. Other systems had been tried and failed in the 20th century. By
contrast, the CCP argued, it had restored China’s sovereignty and dignity and navigated for decades towards
modernization, development, and improvements in the Chinese people’s material lives and the country’s international
status.56 Xi Jinping, from his first days in office, has continued to underline these arguments for remaining committed
to socialism; yet he also returned to the arguments about socialism’s inevitable international triumph that had not been
emphasized since the Mao era. Further, for Xi, not only is socialism the only reliable path to improving China’s status
in the world, but—in the aftermath of the Soviet collapse—the PRC making socialism a success also amounts to a
specifically Chinese achievement that constitutes evidence of national rejuvenation.57

In what would become a famous speech to party cadres at the provincial and ministerial level in early January 2013,
underscoring the party’s commitment to the socialist project, Xi frames the contest as one of systems rivalry with
capitalism, a contest in which China is behind but will catch-up [emphasis added]:

Reality has proved again and again that Karl Marx and Frederick Engels’ analysis of the fundamental contradiction in
capitalist society is not obsolete, nor is the viewpoint of historical materialism that capitalism is doomed to failure
and socialism will prevail. It is an irreversible trend of social development, but the process will be tortuous. It will
be a long process that leads to the demise of capitalism and the victory of socialism. We must understand in depth the
self-regulating capacity of capitalist society and fully recognize the objective reality that developed Western
countries wil dominate the economic, scientifi, technological and military fields for a long time. We must prepare
ourselves for long-term cooperation and rivalry between the two social systems.

For a long time to come, China as a developing country in the primary stage of socialism must cooperate and contend with
capitalist countries that possess more developed productive forces, and learn thoroughly and draw inspiration from the
achievements of their civilizations.58 We must even face criticisms of the weaknesses in our socialist development in
comparison with the strengths of developed Western countries. We must have full confidence in our strategies, resolutely
resist all demands to abandon socialism, and actively correct erroneous ideas that go beyond our current stage. The most
important thing is that we focus on our development to increase our comprehensive national power, improve our people's
lives, and develop socialism that has more strengths than capitalism, so as to lay a solid foundation for us to seize
the initiative, win the competitive edge, and secure our 59

This sense of the PRC as significantly behind the United States and its allies that characterizes this passage from
early in Xi’s tenure, however, was already changing. Even earlier in the same January 2013 address, Xi notes the
international attention Beijing has begun to receive owing to its growing power and he indicates that this will
ultimately lead to international influence on the part of its governing model [emphasis added]:

In recent years, with our growing comprehensive national power and international status, more discussions and studies
have appeared on the Beijing Consensus, the Chinese model, and the Chinese path. Among them, we hear approval and
appreciation. Some foreign scholars believe that China’s rapid development has challenged certain Western theories, and
that a new Marxist theory is overturning the traditional Western theory. We always maintain that it is up to the people
to choose the development path of their country. The Chinese model represents that path of Chinese socialism created by
the Chinese people through their own endeavors. We are confident that as Chinese socialism progresses, our institutions
willundoubtedly mature, the strengths of our system wil become self-evident and our development path wil assuredly
become wider and have greater impact on the world. We must have confidence in our path, our theory and our system.60

This description of Chinese socialism’s path “becoming wider and wider” is a reference to the party’s long-held ambition
that its version of socialism should become more influential internationally once the PRC had demonstrated its success
through its development and modernization drive.61 Here, the “new era” proclaimed at the 19th Party Congress heralds a
watershed change in status for international socialism, which, Xi argued in his report to the Congress, had begun.
Adding to this in 2021, less than five years after the 19th Party Congress, the Central Committee resolution on the
party’s 100th anniversary, Beijing began to assert that the relative status of socialism and capitalism had already
flipped:

Our continued success in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context and the needs of our times has enabled Marxism to take
on a fresh face in the eyes of the world, and significantly shifted the worldwide historical evolution of the contest
between the two different ideologies and social systems of socialism and capitalism in a way that favors socialism.62

At the same time, the resolution deepened the CCP’s claims about the contribution of Xi Jinping Thought to Marxism in
general (and hence to international socialism in general). The party had traditionally credited Mao Zedong with adapting
Marxism to the Chinese context, but Xi Jinping had now integrated “fine traditional Chinese culture” with Marxism.
Further, Beijing maintained, owing to the PRC’s success, Xi Jinping Thought is: “the Marxism of contemporary China and
of the 21st century.”63 This is an expansive claim. Many European and American Marxist scholars would not agree even
that Xi Jinping Thought is Marxism, still less, the Marxist orthodoxy.64 Yet, the resolution goes further. Building on
Xi’s consistent theme that China’s rejuvenation is a vindication of both the Chinese nation and of international
socialism, the resolution argues that what the PRC had accomplished constitutes “a new model for human advancement” that
is both uniquely Chinese (hence bathing the Chinese nation in glory) and of potential value to others:

The Party has led the people in pioneering a uniquely Chinese path to modernization (中国式现代化道路), creating a new model for
human advancement, and expanding the channels for developing countries to achieve modernization. This has offered a new
option for countries and nations who want to accelerate development while preserving their independence.65

Just over a year after this soaring contention, the 20th Party Congress report then continued to advance the former
claim about Xi’s developing Marxism by asserting that: “To uphold and develop Marxism, we must integrate it with China’s
fine traditional culture.” 66 It further reiterates the claim of the resolution on party history that “Chinese
modernization” (中国式现代化, sometimes translated “Chinese-style modernization”) is something uniquely pioneered by the
PRC.67 Xi describes this integration of Chinese culture into Marxism as the “second combination.” (Mao’s adapting
Marxism to the Chinese context is the first combination).68 For Beijing, the result is to tightly lash together the
nationalist project of making the PRC a global leader with the socialist project of providing an alternative to
capitalism as a road to modernity. Beijing credits Chinese culture as underpinning the viability of “socialism with
Chinese characteristics” as an alternative path to modernization. The PRC’s successful path should, Xi maintains, boost
the prestige of both the PRC and socialism. The below passage is from Xi’s February 2023 speech to provincial and
ministerial level cadres on the spirit of the 20th Party Congress. Portions of the speech were published piecemeal near
the time of its delivery, but a more complete version was published in late December 2024. The passage is lengthy but
worth quoting in full [Bill Bishop’s translation]:

Chinese modernization is deeply rooted in China’s fine traditional culture, reflects the advanced essence of scientific
socialism, draws on and assimilates all outstanding achievements of human civilization, represents the progressive
direction of human civilization, and displays a new vision of modernization different from the Western model. It is, in
fact, a completely new form of human civilization. As the latest major achievement of scientific socialism, Chinese
modernization has attracted broad international attention.

Chinese modernization provides a brand-new model of modernization to the world. Since the global modernization process
began in Western capitalist countries, and most of today’s developed countries are in Europe and North America or are
capitalist nations heavily influenced by Western civilization, people often develop a misconception that modernization
equals Westernization, and Western civilization equals modern civilization. In reality, human civilization is diverse,
and there is neither a one-size-fits-all model of modernization nor any universal standard for it. Chinese modernization
breaks the myth that “modernization $=$ Westernization,” presents another perspective on modernization, and expands the
range of options available to developing countries in their pursuit of modernization. It thus offers a Chinese solution
for humanity’s quest for a better social system.

Chinese modernization represents a major transcendence of the theories and practices of Western modernization.
Capitalist civilization is founded on a system of capitalist exploitation and cannot overcome or eradicate the brutality
inherent within it. Fundamentally, there is an inherent contradiction within capitalism between the private ownership of
the means of production and large-scale socialized production—one that the capitalist system is unable to resolve.
Although capitalism and the Western model of modernization continue to evolve, their underlying nature—capital
supremacy, the law of the jungle, severe polarization, and hegemonic dominance—remains unchanged, and their problems are
becoming increasingly evident. The unique worldview, values, historical perspective, civilizational outlook, conception
of democracy, ecological viewpoint, and other elements embodied in Chinese modernization, as well as its great practical
achievements, constitute a significant innovation in global modernization theory and practice.

Chinese modernization offers an entirely new choice for a wide range of developing countries. Attaining modernization is
both a right and an inevitable choice for all peoples of the world, and the key is to identify a path of development
that aligns with a country’s own conditions and the laws governing human societal progress. From the end of World War II
to the early 1990s, some developing countries, disregarding their specific national circumstances and historical
contexts, transplanted Western models wholesale, only to find those models ill-suited to their conditions. As a result,
most fell into long-term economic stagnation and social and political upheaval. The issue of “which path to take”
continues to trouble many developing countries. Thanks to the initial success of Chinese modernization and its notable
achievements—along with the marked contrast in the new era often described as “the East is rising while the West is in
decline” and “order in China versus chaos in the West”— numerous developing countries now see new hope and new
possibilities. Chinese modernization is the answer we have provided to the momentous historical question of how to
“awaken the sleeping lion” and realize national

rejuvenation. It is about choosing one’s own path and focusing on one’s own affairs. We have never intended, nor do we
intend, to export Chinese modernization or the so-called “Chinese model.” However, by setting an example of how
developing countries can achieve modernization independently, Chinese modernization will inevitably serve as a reference
for some of them.69

The last of the above paragraphs expresses Beijing’s vision for the mechanism by which its system (and socialism in
general) will become more prevalent: not via Stalin’s approach of replicating a complete model of a Communist
dictatorship but through piecemeal adoption owing to the prestige of the PRC’s economic success. Yet the preceding
paragraphs also make clear that Beijing sees its system as both an alternative in competition with the model of the West
and as deserving to boost the prestige of both the Chinese nation and Marxist socialism. This linking of the nationalist
project of making China a leader based on specifically Chinese achievements and the Marxist project of demonstrating the
superiority of socialism to capitalism further constitutes a sharpening of the pitch Beijing has been making throughout
Xi’s tenure in the third major area of ambition outlined in “the new era.” This third area, that of “the development of
human society” involves reforming global governance and reshaping the international order.

# 3) Ambitions for Human Society: Building a China-Centric Global Order

Beijing has maintained for decades that a multipolar world is in the process of emerging and frequently emphasizes its
preference for such a world over one dominated by the United States and its allies.70 A multipolar world in which the
PRC is one of several poles, however, should not be mistaken for the world the CCP is ultimately seeking to build in
Xi’s new era. The thumbnail depiction common among US based China specialists that describes Beijing’s goals as
‘regional dominance and global influence’ undersells and does not comport with either Xi Jinping Thought or the PRC’s
actions.71 On the contrary, Beijing has made it clear under Xi Jinping that it seeks a place of global leadership where
the PRC’s proposed solutions to global problems and vision for the global order prevail.

This aspiration is connected to the third area of ambitions Xi articulated at the 19th Party Congress, which focuses on
the new era’s significance for “the history of the development of human society.” It is associated with the claim that
the PRC now “offers Chinese wisdom and a Chinese approach to solving the problems facing humanity.”72 Specifically, Xi
proposes an alternative global order called “A Community with a Shared Future for Humankind” (⼈类命运共同体; originally
translated as “A Community of Common Destiny for Mankind” and hereafter “A Community of Common Destiny”). Xi articulated
“A Community of Common Destiny” over the course of his first term, made it a key pillar of Xi Jinping Thought at the
19th Party Congress, identified it as a “requirement” for realizing Chinese modernization at the 20th Party Congress,
and now claims that it is “pointing the right direction for the development of human society” (指明了⼈类社会共同发展).

Many scholars have noted Beijing’s changing evaluation of its relative comprehensive national power compared with the
United States in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis; yet Xi’s predecessor as general secretary of the CCP, Hu
Jintao, judging China still remained too weak, went out of his way in 2010 to reaffirm former paramount leader Deng
Xiaoping’s foreign policy guideline of quietly building comprehensive national power while not seeking international
leadership. This is the policy frequently summarized as “hide our capabilities and bide our time.”73 Few policy changes
under Xi reflecting the party’s growing confidence in China’s strength and status have been more dramatic than his move
during his first five-year term from “hide and bide” to that of “major country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics”
(“major country” ⼤国 may be translated “great power”).74

At a 2014 Central Foreign Affairs Work Conference (CFAWC), Xi argued China required a diplomacy reflecting its major
country status. He maintained that “Our biggest opportunity lies in China’s steady development and the growth in its
strength.”75 To realize the vision of great power diplomacy with Chinese characteristics, he advocated, among other
things, that the PRC build a global network of partnerships and “actively implement the Belt and Road Initiative”
(discussed further below).76 It was only after internally establishing among PRC diplomats the need for major country
diplomacy with Chinese characteristics at the 2014 CFAWC, however, that Xi then moved to formally detail his vision for
“A Community of Common Destiny” at the United Nations in New York in September 2015 and Geneva in January 2017.77 As
others have noted, while the phrase “A Community of Common Destiny” predated Xi, and Xi himself had begun to frequently
use it in his foreign policy speeches, it was in these two speeches to the UN that Xi began to identify it with an
alternative blueprint for the global order.78 Indeed, the UN is the traditional venue for PRC leaders to articulate an
alternative global vision.79

At a surface level, “A Community of Common Destiny” promotes a vision for global order in the areas of politics,
security, development, culture, and the natural environment designed to contrast with Beijing’s depiction of the
incumbent, Western or United States-centric order. Originally, this contrast was primarily implicit; over the course of
Xi’s tenure, it has become more explicit. Other observers have unpacked at length the details of the contrast the CCP
draws in each of the above areas. For example, Beijing decries US security alliances as exclusive and destabilizing and
advocates instead for its vision of global partnerships aligned to common interests.80 More striking than the depiction
in “A Community of Common Destiny” of Beijing’s opposition to features of the current international order, the substance
of which mostly predates its articulation by decades, however, is its portrait of a deeply integrated world, where “all
under Heaven are of one family,” in which it is the PRC’s leadership that underpins global connectivity, development,
and international politics.81 I concentrate this discussion of “A Community of Common Destiny,” therefore, on the
increasing confidence and openness with which Xi has promoted “A Community of Common Destiny” as an alternative
China-centric order on a global scale.

As others have noted, there is an apparent contradiction between the PRC’s efforts to promote “A Community of Common
Destiny” to the developing world and to others Beijing believes are dissatisfied with the existing order by advocating
international equality and sovereignty over and against the imposition of Western values, on the one hand, and on the
other, painting a vision of China as the global leader.82 Here, Xi Jinping’s answer (at least to a domestic Chinese
audience) is to invoke the traditional Chinese concept of tianxia (天下, “all under heaven”), which Xi has linked to “A
Community of Common Destiny” by quoting a famous passage on tianxiafrom the Chinese classic Book of Rites in his
speeches on $^ { \prime \prime } \mathsf { A }$ Community of Common Destiny.”83

Tianxia is a vision where China, as the center of human flourishing (both in material terms [wealth] and political terms
[good governance] and in terms of values), attracts others to learn from, connect themselves to, and ultimately move
into conformity with it.84 For Xi, the “A Community of Common Destiny” will thus advance the causes of both the Chinese
nation and of international socialism: not by fomenting violent revolution, but rather through other countries’ free
choices as they “hitch themselves to China’s development vehicle.”85 Indeed, by injecting ideas associated with
tianxiainto his blueprint for global order, Xi offers a signature case of the “second combination” Xi Jinping Thought
purports to achieve by mixing “fine traditional Chinese culture” and Marxism.86 Indeed, there is a symmetry between the
concept of how tianxia is supposed to build global order and the concrete approaches Beijing is using to operationalize
“A Community of Common Destiny.”

Between the 2015 and 2017 “A Community of Common Destiny” speeches, in a pivotal address to a politburo group study
session on global governance, Xi maintained that the “pattern of global governance depends upon the balance of power,
and the transformation of the global governance system originates from changes in the balance of power” and that China
must seek to build consensus for changing the system “by following the principles of extensive consultation, joint
development, and shared benefits.”87 The primary instrument for this is the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Over roughly
the same period in Xi’s first term, BRI grew in scale to match the global ambitions of “A Community of Common Destiny.”
Xi had originally identified it as a regional effort connecting China to Europe via Africa and Asia through the “five
major goals” of “policy coordination, facilities connectivity, unimpeded trade, financial integration and
people-topeople bonds” when he announced it in two speeches in 2013 and consolidated the party’s depiction of it in a
March 2015 “action plan” paper.88 Yet Beijing extended BRI to the digital domain also in March 2015, and by the end of
2017 had widened BRI to include Latin America, the Arctic, and outer space. Today, BRI is explicitly a “platform” for
realizing “A Community of Common Destiny.”89 While the PRC began to make BRI investments more carefully after 2016 (to
date the year of the largest number of new projects, with the value of new projects peaking in 2019)90 , Beijing remains
committed both to BRI and to the mechanism of using the PRC’s size and economic strength to seek global leadership in
both emerging industries and technology and the positional power that comes from installing the infrastructure and
setting the standards that undergird the future of global connectivity.91 Indeed, over the course of Xi’s second
five-year term and into his third, despite the setback BRI endured with the advent of COVID, he has doubled-down on his
ambitions for “A Community of Common Destiny” and become more open in framing it as a challenge to the US-led order.92

“A Community of Common Destiny” is not merely an aspiration or a sketch of the kind of world Beijing hopes for. On the
contrary, Xi has made clear that its realization is crucial for the attainment of the CCP’s long-term goals including
national rejuvenation. The 19th Party Congress enshrined “A Community of Common Destiny” both in Xi Jinping Thought and
in the party’s constitution, with the seventh of eight items that Xi Jinping Thought “makes clear” reading: “It makes
clear that major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics aims to foster a new type of international relations and
build a global community of shared future.”93 The report also discusses “A Community of Common Destiny” as the 13th of
Xi Jinping Thought’s 14 points of basic policy, and mentions “A Community of Common Destiny” in both the title and twice
in the body of the chapter of the report devoted to foreign affairs. In both instances in the body of the text, the
report talks about working with the people of all countries to build a “A Community of Common Destiny.” 94

Beijing’s sense of the trajectory of its new era horizons in international order building became even more optimistic
between the 19th and 20th Party Congresses. A significant feature of this confidence is the party’s widely-noted formal
judgment that the world is undergoing “great changes not seen in a century” (历百年未有之⼤变局). This phrase emerged between the
two Congresses, is quoted in the 2021 Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study
Questions & Answers volume, afirmed in the 20th Party Congress report, and Xi continues to invoke it as of this
writing.95 A chapter of the study questions volumespecifically addressing “The World is Undergoing Great Changes Not
Seen in a Century; What are these Changes?” maintains that:

In brief, the great changes not seen in a century are that the current international structure and international system
are undergoing profound adjustments, and the global governance system is undergoing profound changes. The international
balance of power is undergoing the most revolutionary change in modern times, and the world presents us with important
trends that affect the process and direction of human history.96

The chapter then unpacks the origins of these changes in several, unnumbered drivers. First, the PRC’s leaders perceive
that the weight of the global economy is shifting away from Washington and the developed capitalist democracies and
towards Asia, the developing world, and the PRC. Second, the world is on the threshold of incredibly dynamic changes
(Beijing calls these the “new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation,
新⼀轮科技⾰命和产业变⾰) which some international scholars call the 4th industrial revolution. Beijing sees these changes as having
the potential to reshape not only social and political life around the globe, but also “the international pattern and
international system.” The PRC further sees these technological frontiers as both an opportunity to seize the leading
global position and shape how emerging norms and standards are set.97 Third, Beijing sees what it describes as the US or
Western-led international political and economic order as “unsustainable” in the wake of the relative decline in
strength of the developed countries. The current (Western-led) global governance system, Beijing maintains, is failing
to adapt and is unable to solve global problems. Fourth, Beijing maintains that the world is becoming more integrated
and interdependent. Finally, the CCP maintains that China’s national rejuvenation is both accelerating these trends and
further driven by them.98 Indeed, the growing confidence embodied in the assessment of “changes not seen in a century”
has coincided with the PRC’s more assertive proclamation of its role in reforming global governance and of “A Community
of Common Destiny” as the solution it is proffering.

Since the 19th Party Congress, Xi has moved from calling for participating in the reform of the global governance system
to calling for actively leading that reform.99 The 2021 Central Committee resolution on the party’s 100th anniversary
further maintains: “The concept of a human community with a shared future has become a banner leading trends of the
times and human progress.”100 In a chapter of the resolution on “The Historical Significance of the Party’s Endeavors
Over the Past Century,” the resolution’s fourth of five points is that these endeavors have “produced a profound
influence on the course of world history.” The discussion then combines Beijing’s claim about the PRC pioneering a new
form of civilization discussed in an earlier section of this essay with a claim about order building via “A Community of
Common Destiny.” It avers [emphasis added]:

The Party has led the people in pioneering a uniquely Chinese path to modernization, creating a new model for human
advancement, and expanding the channels for developing countries to achieve modernization. This has offered a new option
for countries and nations who want to accelerate development while preserving their independence. The Party has promoted
the development of a human community with a shared future, and offered Chinese wisdom, Chinese solutions, and Chinese
strength for addressing major issues facing humanity and for building an open, inclusive, clean, and beautiful world
that enjoys enduring peace, universal security, and common prosperity.It has thus become an important force driving
human development and progress.11

For its part, the 20th Party Congress, which, as noted above, occurred after the advent of more open global strategic
rivalry with Washington, doubles down on Beijing’s goals for the development of humanity in two significant ways. First,
it frames the realization of Xi’s global order building project as a requirement for achieving Chinese modernization.
The report’s chapter on the new journey, in discussing “Chinese modernization,” maintains [emphasis added]:

The essential requirements of Chinese modernization are as follows: upholding the leadership of the Communist Party of
China and socialism with Chinese characteristics, pursuing high-quality development, developing wholeprocess people’s
democracy, enriching the people’s cultural lives, achieving common prosperity for all, promoting harmony between
humanity and nature, building a global community of shared future, and creating a new model for 102

In other words, Beijing makes clear that attaining the CCP’s objectives for the Chinese nation requires the construction
of the global order along the lines the CCP favors.103 Here, beginning just before the resolution on the party’s 100th
birthday, and extending after the 20th Party Congress, the PRC rolled out several “global initiatives” that are designed
to offer an explicit counterpoint to the current global governance system. Thus far, Beijing has a Global Development
Initiative (announced September 2021), Global Security Initiative (announced April 2022) and Global Civilization
Initiative (announced March 2023). As of this writing, these initiatives remain weakly institutionalized, more concepts
than institutions, but, as the record of BRI shows, the PRC at times begins with concepts and then builds the
institutions to embody and realize them overtime.104 The 20th Party Congress links the two initiatives then extant to “A
Community of Common Destiny”:

Building a global community of shared future is the way forward for all the world’s peoples. An ancient Chinese
philosopher observed that “all living things may grow side by side without harming one another, and different roads may
run parallel without interfering with one another.”105 Only when all countries pursue the cause of common good, live in
harmony, and engage in cooperation for mutual benefit wil there be sustained prosperity and guaranteed securit. It i in
this spirit that China has put forward the Global Development Intiative and the Global Security Initiative, and it
stands ready to work with the international community to put these two initiatives into action.106

While the principles associated with these global initiatives are not new, their significance lies in their balder
framing of Beijing offering an alternative to the current order. Xi’s February 2023 speech on the spirit of the 20th
Party Congress further underscores that Beijing is offering these alternatives over and against what the CCP portrays as
the values and actions of the West. In what is ostensibly an address on Chinese modernization, he identifies an explicit
contrast between the PRC and the West in terms of size of their respective populations, people-centered modernization
vs. capital-centered modernization, coordinated material and spiritual civilization vs. greed and “spiritual poverty,”
harmony with nature vs. plundering the ecological environment, and peaceful development vs. war, the slave trade,
colonization. and plunder. Near the conclusion of the address, he talks about the “great struggle” (a CCP euphemism for
the systems contest with Western capitalist democracy), and trumpets [emphasis added]:

We must maintain strategic confidence and strengthen our fighting spirit. Where does this confidence come from? It comes
from our country’s increasingly solid foundation, but also from our firm ideals and beliefs, our persistent pursuit of
truth, and our unswerving adherence to the Party’s original aspiration and mission. In the face of encirclement,
containment, and suppression, we should fight with confidence, because we always stand on the right side of history, on
the side of the progress of human civilization, and promote the building of a world of lasting peace, universal
security, common prosperity, openness, inclusiveness, cleanliness, and beauty. We play a constructive role in
maintaining world peace and regional stability, and we are on the right path and doing a just cause. Hegemonism, power
politics, unilateralism, and protectionism go against the trend of the times, are unpopular, and have few supporters.107

This depiction of Beijing’s goal of a world of “lasting peace, universal security, common prosperity, openness,
inclusiveness, cleanliness, and beauty” (持久和平、普遍安全、共同繁荣、开放包容、清洁美丽的世界) is a phrase associated with “A Community of Common
Destiny” and its five areas of politics, security, development, culture, and the environment.108 Finally, in December
2023 at the third Central Foreign Affairs Work Conference held during his tenure, Xi became even more expansive in his
claims about momentum for “A Community of Common Destiny.” The following is from the official translation of the Xinhua
news summary [emphasis added:

It was pointed out at the conference that building a community with a shared future for mankind is the core tenet of Xi
Jinping Thought on Diplomacy.109 It is how China proposes to solve the questions of what kind of world to build and how
to build it based on our deepening understanding of the laws governing the development of human society.It reflects the
Chinese Communists' worldview, perception of order, and values, accords with the common aspiration of people in all
countries, and points the direction for the progress of world civilizations. It is also the noble goal pursued by China
in conducting major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics for the new era. Since the dawn of this new era,
building a community with a shared future for mankind has developed from a Chinese initiative to an international
consensus, from a promising vision to substantive actions, and from a conceptual proposition to a scientific system. It
has served as a glorious banner leading the progress of the 110

In such a context, we ought to be able to put to bed suggestions that Beijing’s ambitions for its place in the world are
regional (with merely “global influence” as the goal). Rather, the CCP’s vision is that its ideas and solutions become
the foundation for the future global order and underpin the future of a deeply interconnected world and the future
development of humanity as a whole. If there remained any doubts about the scope of US-PRC strategic rivalry, the 20th
Party Congress and its aftermath should have answered them.

# Conclusion

In sum, regardless of any particular U.S. administration’s official view of the international order or of the United
States’ global role, Xi Jinping is likely to continue to seek to navigate towards his party’s long-term objectives that
he has both accelerated and expressed with increasing confidence over his more than a dozen years as paramount leader.
These reflect the central vision of his claim that, with China’s emergence as the number two power in the world (in his
view, on the way to number one by mid-century), “socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era.” The new
era is to be one in which the PRC assumes global leadership, in which the relative balance of global prestige shifts
from capitalism to socialism, and in which Beijing builds consensus for a new model of global governance. “We must
realize that this era is one for socialism with Chinese characteristics, not for some other models,” Xi said in a
January 2018 speech for members and alternates of the 19th Central Committee and provincial and ministerial level cadres
at a study session on the principles of the 19th Party Congress.111 All statements of fact and opinion are the author’s
alone and do not represent the views of the National Intelligence University, the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence, or the US government.

\* I wish to thank Peter Mattis, Erik Quam, and Liza Tobin for helpful comments on a draft of this essay. All statements
of fact and opinion are the author’s alone and do not represent the views of the National Intelligence University, the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence, or the US government.

1. For two recent overviews of the turn to strategic competition under the first Trump and Biden administrations, see
Robert D. Blackwill and Richard Fontaine, Lost Decade: The US Pivot to Asia and the Rise of Chinese Power (New York:
Oxford University Press, 2024) and David M. McCourt, The End of Engagement: America’s China and Russia Experts and U.S.
Strategy Since 1989 (New York: Oxford University Press, 2024). See also Matt Pottinger and Mike Gallagher, “No
Substitute for Victory: America’s Competition with China Must Be Won, Not Managed,” Foreign Affairs, May/June 2024,
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/united-states/no-substitute-victory-pottinger-gallagher. For a summary of Beijing’s view
of policy continuity between the first Trump administration and the Biden administration, see Ryan Hass, “China’s
Response to American-led ‘Containment and Suppression’” China Leadership Monitor, Issue 77 (September 2023),
https://www.prcleader.org/post/china-s-response-to-american-led-containment-and-suppression.

2. In this paper, I adopt the standard, English language academic translation of the party’s name as the Chinese
Communist Party (CCP). Arguably, Beijing’s preferred translation of the Communist Party of China (CPC) is more accurate.
The former appears to underline the party’s Chineseness. The later emphasizes that the party is communist and just
happens to be the Communist Party located in China.

3. In time, even if Washington is not named directly, the CCP will issue a formal assessment of how the new US
administration’s policies are changing the environment the PRC faces, and observers will have ample opportunity to watch
the regime’s Leninist institutions mobilize to promulgate and explicate it to China’s officials, diplomats, and
military.

4. For an intellectual and institutional history of Cold War era Soviet Studies see David C. Engerman, Know Your Enemy:
The Rise and Fallof America's Soviet Experts (New York: Oxford University Press, 2009). The journal referred to here,
with origins in Switzerland, is Studies in Soviet Thought, which published under that title from 1961-1992,
https://wwwjstor-org.niu.idm.oclc.org/journal/studsovithou.

5. See Rush Doshi, The Long Game: China’s Grand Strategy to Displace American Order (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2021), particularly the introduction and chapters 1-2 and Timothy R. Heath, China’s New Governing Party Paradigm:
Political Renewal and the Pursuit of National Rejuvenation (Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2014), particularly chapters 4-6.

6. Doshi, The Long Game, 40, cites the New Zealand Sinologist who wrote under the penname Simon Leys for his passage
maintaining that reading CCP documents is “akin to munching rhinoceros sausage, or to swallowing sawdust by the
bucketful.” See Simon Leys, “The Art of Interpreting Nonexistent Inscriptions Written in Invisible Ink on a Blank Page,”
New York Review of Book, October 11, 1990,
https://www.nybooks.com/articles/1990/10/11/the-art-ofinterpreting-nonexistent-inscriptions-w/

7. By far the best such work remains Rush Doshi’s excellent study of PRC grand strategy as depicted in the party’s own
writings over decades, The Long Game, mentioned above. See also former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd’s, On Xi
Jinping: How Xi's Marxist Nationalism is Shaping China and the World (Oxford University Press, 2024), which joins a
volume by two British scholars, Steve Tsang and Olivia Cheung, The Political Thought of Xi Jinping (Oxford University
Press, 2023). In addition, there are several projects seeking to translate key texts and make them available to the
public such as the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ “Interpret China” program
(https://interpret.csis.org/), Georgetown University’s Center for Security and Emerging Technology
(https://cset.georgetown.edu/publications/), and Air University’s China Aerospace Studies Center
(https://www.airuniversity.af.edu/CASI/In-Their-Own-Words/).

8. Both Rudd’s and Tsang and Cheung’s respective studies of Xi’s ideology noted above draw attention to extremely
important elements of the CCP’s global ambitions and strategic rivalry with Washington. Rudd’s volume, in addition,
takes Xi’s profession of Marxism seriously and discusses some of the consequential ways in which Beijing continues to
operate with Marxist-Leninist intellectual and institutional architecture. When Rudd and Tsang and Cheung respectively
describe the details of a particular policy of Xi’s in the body of their books, they are generally on-target. Neither
book’s overall summary of Xi’s political thought, however, provides a sense of why Beijing holds these ideas and how
they relate to one another. Tsang and Cheung in The Political Thought of Xi Jinping, 37-39, identify the key features of
Xi’s thought as: 1) Party supremacy, 2) party-centric nationalism, 3) governance reform, 4) monitoring and shaping
public opinion, and 5) economic strength). These are indeed important themes in Xi Jinping Thought, but they do not
constitute a summary of Xi’s thought. They do not reflect the structure or logic of Xi Jinping Thought as Beijing lays
it out for China’s own officials. For his part, Rudd does discuss “the new era” extensively, but he does so primarily in
terms of both the change in domestic governance challenges it identifies and in terms of the policy changes it produced.
Rudd organizes the core argument of his volume On Xi Jinping (summarized on pages 13-17) around his contention that Xi
has moved the PRC to the Leninist left politically, Marxist left economically, and nationalist right in terms of foreign
policy. This is insightful, but again, it is not a summary of what Xi believes and why he is taking the direction he is.
In both cases, attention to Xi’s own depiction of the meaning of the “new era for socialism with Chinese
characteristics” as a change in China’s status in the world owing to its growing wealth and power as a result of the
CCP’s navigation via socialism with Chinese characteristics would have clarified how Xi sees his tenure within the
party’s history, in the context of China’s history and its future. It would have illuminated why he is pursuing the
specific policies he is in specific domains.

9. Xi Jinping, The Governance of China III, (Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 2020), 1-31. The new era and its
significance are underlined in the first substantive sentence of Xi’s report to the Congress (after his greeting), and
in the text of the Congress’ theme (the second substantive sentence). The second chapter of the report is devoted to
explaining the meaning and significance of the “new era,” and the third chapter (corresponding in this case to the
portion of the report where the party modifies its guiding ideology in light of new conditions) provides an overview of
the substance of “The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the Basic Policy.” Xi frames
the third chapter explicitly as constituting the party’s “answer” to the question posed by “changes both in and outside
China, and the progress made in all areas of China’s endeavors,” which “have presented us with a profound question— the
question of an era.”

10. Xi Jinping Thought addresses all the major areas of PRC policy that are traditionally discussed in Party Congress
reports. Both Xi’s four volumes of speeches collected in his Governance of China volumes (Beijing: Foreign Languages
Press, 2014, 2017, 2020, 2022 respectively) and most of the party’s official study guides, also tackle them in order:
economics, politics, culture, social affairs, the environment, national defense, national unification (i.e. Taiwan, Hong
Kong and Macau), foreign relations, and party building. The party frames its approach in each of these areas of policy
in terms of the conditions specified by and goals associated with the new era for socialism with Chinese
characteristics. Xi’s report to the 19th Party Congress, when detailing the need to revise policy in light of the
conditions of the new era, however, cites fifteen areas rather than nine: “the economy, political affairs, rule of law,
science and technology, culture, education, the wellbeing of our people, ethnic and religious affairs, social
development, ecological conservation, national security, defense and the armed forces, the principle of ‘one country, two systems’ and national reunification,
the united front, foreign affairs, and Party building.” See Xi, The Governance of China III, 19. Some of these areas:
science and technology and education (as a single chapter), law, and national security became additional chapters of
Xi’s report to the 20th Party Congress in 2022. For the text of the 20th Party Congress report and its new chapters see
Xi Jinping, Selected Readings From the Works of Xi Jinping, Volume I (Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 2024), 1-75.

11. The Party Congresses referred to here are the National Congresses of the CCP held every five years. English
scholarship traditionally simply refers to them as Party Congresses to avoid confusion with meetings on the PRC’s
legislature, the National People’s Congress, which has the English abbreviation NPC. For more on the role of the Party
Congress as the apex of the PRC’s political system see Guoguang Wu, China’s Party Congress: Power, Legitimacy, and
Institutional Manipulation (Cambridge University Press: New York, 2015).

12. In this article, I use the official translation where available, checked against the original Chinese. Where no
official translation is available, translations are my own edits of Google Translate. In a few specific cases (noted in
the accompanying endnote in each case) I have modified the official translation where it obscures something important.
For example, throughout this paper, the Chinese term 综合国⼒ is translated “comprehensive national power.” Beijing
translates it in multiple ways.

13. Xi, The Governance of China III, 11-12. This is an instance where I have changed the official translation “composite
national strength” to “comprehensive national power” to make clear that the underlying Chinese term is 综合国⼒. In
addition, I have modified the official translation here in several places where 我国 “our country” was rendered “China.”
The phrase 全国各族⼈⺠, which I have translated “the country’s people of all nationalities” was rendered “all the Chinese
people.” Where the text refers to “the Chinese nation” (中华⺠族) the connotation that this means the ethnicity rather than
just the state is clearer in Chinese than in English.

The official translation of the passage 党的⾯貌、国家的⾯貌、⼈⺠的⾯貌、军队的⾯貌、
中华⺠族的⾯貌发⽣了前所未有的变omits the parallel structure references to the “face” of each and simply says “changed without
precedent.” It also says “nation” whereas “Chinese nation” is more accurate. Finally, the phrase “从站起来、富起来到强起” was
translated: “stood up, grown rich and is becoming strong” in the first official English text of the speech. For the
original official translation see Xi Jinping, “Secure a Decisive Victory in Building a Moderately Prosperous Society in
All Respects and Strive for the Great Success of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era,” Delivered at the
19th National Congress of the Communist Party of
China, www.xinhuanet.com/english/download/Xi_Jinping’s_report_at_19th_CPC_National_Congress.pdf, 9 Note: this is the
page numbered 9 but is page 10 of the pdf; the first page contains no number. 14. Official study guides to Xi Jinping
Thought published by the Central Propaganda Department in Beijing, for example, all foreground the significance of the
“new era” for Xi Jinping Thought and identify it as a milestone change in China’s status. The May 2018 Thirty Lectures
on Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era(习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想三十讲) begins discussing
meaning of the new era on page 2. The June 2019 Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New
Era Study
Outine(习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想学习纲要) addresses its first numbered chapter to the meaning of socialism with Chinese
characteristics “entering a new era.” The 2021 Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New
Era Study Questions & Answers(习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想学习问答)'s first set of six questions address Xi Jinping Thought’s status as
Marxism, its origin, scientific status, derivation from dialectical and historical materialism, etc., but the second set
of questions begins with a discussion of the meaning of “new” in “new era” followed by a question on the meaning of the
party’s evaluation of the international environment “changes not seen in a century,” about which, see the discussion
later in this essay.

15. Central Propaganda Department, Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study
Questions & Answers [习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想学习问答] (Beijing: Study Press, 2021), 59. The translation is my edit of Google
Translate.

16. The party credits Deng Xiaoping with expressing the need for a socialism with Chinese characteristics at the 12th
Party Congress in 1982, but explains that the 13th Party Congress in 1987, which identified the CCP’s basic line in the
primary stage of socialism identified its contours. See for example, Zhang Xuebing and Xu Lei (He Bo et al. trans.) What
is the Path of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics: How China Has Come All This Way (Beijing: China Intercontinental
Press, 2021), 102-105. The CCP has only added three words to its basic line since 1987 and made no changes between the
19th and 20th Party Congresses.

17. This is a reference to the change in the “principal contradiction facing the party.” The 19th Party Congress revised
this thumbnail account of the party’s governance challenge for the first time since 1981. For the 1981 language, see
Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, Resolution on CPC History (1949-81) (Peking: Foreign Languages Press,
1981), 76-77. For the 2012 18th Party Congress’ retention use of the same principal contradiction as the 1981
resolution, see “Constitution of the Communist Party of China, Revised and Adopted at the Eighteenth National Congress
of the Communist Party of China on November 14, $2 0 1 2 ^ { \prime \prime }$ china.org.cn/china/18th_cpc_congress/2012-
11/16/content_27138030.htm. For the CCP’s constitution as revised by the 19th Party Congress report containing the
revised principal contradiction, see “Constitution of the Communist Party of China, Revised and Adopted at the 19th
National Congress of the Communist Party of China on October 24, 2017,”
news.xinhuanet.com/english/download/Constitution_of_the_Communist_Party_of_China.pdf.

18. Xi, The Governance ofChina III 19.

19. A clear depiction of this is the third question addressed in Central Propaganda Department, Xi Jinping Thought on
Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study Questions & Answers, 13-16. See also On Daniel Tobin, “How Xi
Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s Ambitions,” Center for Strategic and International
Studies, Washington, DC (May 2020),
https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fspublic/publication/200508_Tobin_NewEra_v4%5 B 2%5D.pdf, particularly 1-7,
including 2 n 3, 5 n 18, and 5 n 20.

20. The Governance of China III, 12.

21. Xi, The Governance of China III, 14. I have numbered three areas, but the structure of both the English and Chinese
texts of this passage suggest implications of the new era for four areas in two groups: (1) China and the Chinese
nation, and (2) international socialism and human society. I personally do not regard the status of Chinese nationality
as an ethnic and cultural group as identical with the status of the PRC. In practice, however, Beijing seeks to minimize
this distinction: urging ethnically and culturally Chinese people abroad to identify the PRC’s success with the status
of the Chinese nation and exhorting them to support the PRC. In terms of the categories of ambition identified in this
article as Beijing discusses them when outlining Xi Jinping Thought, Xi’s ambitions for China as a country/state and as
a nation (i.e. people, ethnicity, culture) can be grouped together. The passage in Chinese is
“中国特⾊社会主义进⼊新时代，在中华⼈⺠共和国发展史上、中华⺠族发展史上具有重⼤意义， 在世界社会主义发展史上、⼈类社会发展史上也具有重⼤意义.”

22. This article focuses on the 19th and 20th Party Congress reports and the 2021 “Resolution of the Central Committee
of the Communist Party of China on the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century”
of the 6th Plenum of the 19th Central Committee Central Committee (often referred to by external observers as the 2021
resolution on CCP history associated with the party’s 100th anniversary) because Party Congresses are the apex of the
PRC’s five-year political cycle, and Central Committee resolutions on party history are extremely rare and significant
political milestones. A particular phrase’s inclusion in one of these venues is an important metric. In many cases, Xi
had begun using a new formulation between these important political venues. Nevertheless, the formulation’s inclusion
in, for example, the 20th Party Congress report, remains a very significant signal of its status.

23. Indeed, as former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd notes, the 20th Party Congress framed “the new era” as
coinciding with Xi Jinping’s entire tenure in office to date since October 2012 (i.e., rather than beginning from the
proclamation of the new era at the 19th Party Congress in 2017). See Rudd, On Xi Jinping, 317-318.

24. Xi, The Governance of China III,1. Immediately after the sentence announcing the theme of the Congress on page 1 of
Xi’s report, he declares: “Never forget why you started, and you can accomplish your mission. The original aspiration
and mission of Chinese Communists is to seek happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.”

25. Xi, The Governance of China III, 15-16. This passage, where each paragraph talking about a particular period begins
with “Our Party was deeply aware that, to achieve national rejuvenation….” occurs in the report’s second chapter.

26. Xi Jinping, The Governance of China (Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 2014), 38. Xi’s report to the 19th Party
Congress echoes this language: “National rejuvenation has been the greatest dream of the Chinese people since modern
times began.” See Xi, The Governance of China III, 15.

27. Xi, Governance of China, 12.

28. On this, a classic, elegant overview is Orville Schell and John DeLury, Wealth and Power: China’s Long March to the
Twenty-First Century (New York: Random House, 2012).

29. Xi, The Governance of China, 3-4.

30. X’s phrase “China can stand firm and strong among the world’s nations” (中华⺠族将以更加昂扬的姿态屹⽴于世界⺠族之林) invokes language of Mao’s from the mid-1930s expressing the same purpose. The official English
rendering of Mao’s parallel quote is: “We Chinese have the spirit to fight the enemy to the last drop of blood, the
determination to recover our lost territory by our own efforts, and the ability to stand on our own feet in the family
of nations.” Mao Tse-tung, “On Tactics Against Japanese Imperialism,” December 27, 1935, Selected Works of Mao Tse-tung,
Volume I, (Beijing: Foreign Languages Press), 170. Both Mao and Xi use the phrase “于世界⺠族之林” (literally, “among the
world’s forest of nations”). On making greater contributions, see Daniel Tobin, “How Xi Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have
Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s Ambitions,” 5 n 18.

31. Xi, The Governance ofChina, 37-39.

32. Michael Sullivan, “The Ideology of the Chinese Communist Party Since the Third Plenum” in Bill Brugger, ed., Chinese
Marxism in Flux 1978-84: Essays on Epistemology, Ideology, and Political Economy (Armonk, NY: M.E. Sharpe, 1985), 67-69.

33. Mao Tse-tung, “Strengthen Party Unity and Carry Forward Party Traditions” Speech at the first session of the
preparatory meeting for the Eighth National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, August 30, 1956. This speech was
collected in Volume V of Mao’s Selected Works, published in 1977, however, today the CCP only publishes volumes I-IV.
See https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/mao/selected-works/volume-5/mswv5_53.htm.

34. William A. Callahan, “History, Tradition and the China Dream: Socialist Modernization in the World of Great
Harmony,” Journal of Contemporary China 24, no. 96 (2015): 983-
1001, https://doi.org/10.1080/10670564.2015.1030915.

35. Beijing uses the five-hundred-year figure for the socialist tradition by dating its origins to Thomas Moore’s novel
Utopia in 1516. See Qin Xuan (trans. Chen Shidan), Volume 1: Theory: New Theory about Socialism with Chinese
Characteristics, China Remin University Press [New Concepts, New Ideas and New Strategies of Xi Jinping's Thought on the
Governance of China (A 10-Volume Set) (Beijing, 2017), 60-61.

36. Central Propaganda Department, Xi Jinping Thought Study Questions & Answers cited above, 105-106. The passage occurs
in question-and-answer number 22, which was reprinted in The People’s Daily on August 2, 2021. For the parallel passage
in Xi’s July 1, 2016 speech (it is almost identical, with the study guide adding two clauses to the first sentence and
changing 60 years of the PRC to 70), see Xinhua News Agency, “Xi Jinping: Speech at the Meeting Celebrating the 95th
Anniversary of the Founding of the Communist Party of China” [习近平: 在庆祝中国共产党成⽴95周年⼤会上的讲话] July 1, 2016,
http://www.xinhuanet.com//politics/2016- 07/01/c_1119150660.htm. The translation is my own edit of Google Translate’s
English rendering of the passage.

37. This is another instance where I have changed the translation of 综合国⼒ (in this case) “overall strength” to
“comprehensive national power.” For the latest instance of this passage in the party’s constitution, see “Constitution
of the Communist Party of China, Revised and Adopted at the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China on
October 22, $2 0 2 2 , \because$ . The text is available at https://english.www.gov.cn/news/topnews/202210/26/content_WS635921cdc6d0a757729e1cd4.html. TheChinese version, where
the passage is “各项⼯作都要把有利于发展社会主义社会的⽣产⼒，
有利于增强社会主义国家的综合国⼒，有利于提⾼⼈⺠的⽣活⽔平” is available at
http://cpc.people.com.cn/20th/n1/2022/1026/c448334-32552477.html.

38. Erik Quam has several forthcoming papers examining in greater depth the CCP’s use of the concept of comprehensive
national power as a driver of its strategy. An early study drawing attention to Beijing’s calculations of comprehensive
national power is Michael Pillsbury, China Debates the Future Security Environment (Washington, DC: National Defense
University Press, 2000).

39. Rudd, On Xi Jinping, 213-217 provides an excellent discussion of comprehensive national power as a driver of Xi’s
more ambitious foreign policy posture, but in the structure of his overall argument, this buries the lead. The change in
comprehensive national power is a crucial driver of both the proclamation of the new era and Beijing’s ambitions across
policy areas within it. For their part Tsang and Cheung in The Political Thought of Xi Jinping, 199 and 201, correctly
frame Xi’s goals for comprehensive national power in their conclusion but have not placed it at the core of their
account of Xi Jinping Thought, where it belongs.

40. I am indebted to Erik Quam for a version of this point.

41. Xi, The Governance of China III, 28-31. For the 1987 version of Beijing’s mid-century goals see Zhao Ziyang,
“Advance Along the Road of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics,” Report Delivered at the Thirteenth National Congress
of the Communist Party of China on October 25, 1987, in Documents of the Thirteenth National Congress of the Communist
Party of China (1987) (Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 1987), 18. The English description of modernization goals for
mid-century as expressed in 1987 and for 2035 as expressed by Xi in 2017 is not an exact match, but the Chinese:
“基本实现现代化” is. Further, with respect to the Party’s development goals for the military (Xi, The Governance of China III,
57), in adopting “world-class” as the second of two long-term targets in place of the prior goal of attaining full
modernization by mid-century, the 19th Party Congress explicitly accelerated the People’s Liberation Army (PLA)’s
long-term modernization targets by fifteen years. This is explained in the chapter on the PLA in the Central Propaganda
Department, Thirty Lectures on Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, cited above,
272.

42. Xi, The Governance of China III, 30. The official translation is “composite national strength.” This is an instance
where I have changed the text to “comprehensive national power” to make clear that the underlying Chinese term is 综合国⼒.

43. With respect to “a” vs. “the” global leader, although Chinese does not have articles like “a” and “the,” Xi went out
of his way to not specifically indicate China would be at the very top. Indeed, as alluded to above, the word “global”
is here not present in the Chinese: 综合国⼒和国际影响⼒领先的国家.

44. Xi has talked about seizing the initiative with respect to history, innovation and development, and military
affairs, etc. See, for example, Daniel Tobin, “How Xi Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s
Ambitions,” 6-7 n 25. The quote should read “seize the strategic initiative in a new round of global competition.”

45. Manifesto [宣⾔], “Why We Can Succeed” [“我们为什么能够成功”], The People’s Daily [⼈⺠⽇报], September 27, 2021,
http://opinion.people.com.cn/n1/2021/0927/c1003-32237566.html. I am indebted to Erik Quam for flagging this reference.

46. See, for example, the excellent paper by Brock Erdahl and David Gitter, “Uncertain Times and Fading Opportunities:
The Pessimistic CCP Perceptions Driving China’s Foreign Policy and Its Preparations for the Threat of War,” Center for
Advanced China Research, October 24, 2022,
https://www.ccpwatch.org/single-post/cacr-report-china-s-uncertaintimes-and-fading-opportunities.

47. For an example of analysis assessing that the PRC has peaked and ought to adjust its ambitions, including longterm
development goals, considering these diminished prospects, see Logan Wright, “China’s Economy Has Peaked. Can Beijing
Redefine Its Goals?” Rhodium Group, September 1, 2024,
https://rhg.com/research/chinas-economy-haspeaked-can-beijing-redefine-its-goals/.

48. Xi, Selected Readings I, 21-22. On the “new journey” as theme, see, for example, Commentary Writer from This
Newspaper (本报评论员, indicating an official Central Committee position), “Set Off Towards the New Goal!” [向着新的奋⽃⽬标，出发!],
The People’s Daily [⼈⺠⽇报], October 28, 2022,
http://paper.people.com.cn/rmrb/html/2022-10/28/nw.D110000renmrb_20221028_2-02.htm.

49. Xi, Selected Readings I, 21-27.

50. See, for example, Xi Jinping’s March 2013 speech to military delegates at the National People’s Congress (NPC), in
which he declared: “The more our strength develops, the greater the resistance pressure and the more external risks we
will face. This is an unavoidable challenge on our country’s path from big to strong. It is an unavoidable threshold we
must cross to achieve the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.” This is quoted in: China Central Television, Strong
Military, Episode 1:"The Dream"[“强军第一集逐梦", September 30, 2017, available
from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v $\ulcorner$ TUYpfNSpELk. See also the stark account in the 2021 Central Propaganda
Department, Xi Jinping Thought Study Questions & Answers volume on “changes not seen in a century,” (discussed further
below), 46:

“We must clearly see that the United States and other Western countries will never be willing to sit back and watch the
loss of their dominant position, and will inevitably suppress China by all means.” [要清楚看到，
美国等⻄⽅国家绝不⽢⼼和坐视主导地位的丧失，必然处⼼积虑、不择⼿段打压中国].

51. Xi, Selected Readings I, 1.

52. For a nuanced discussion, see Jude Blanchette’s review essay of the Rudd and Tsang/Cheung volumes: “Is Xi Jinping a
Marxist,” China Books Review, October 17, 2024,https://chinabooksreview.com/2024/10/17/xi-thought/.

53. Daniel Tobin, “How Xi Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s Ambitions,” 8-15.

54. Xi, The Governance of China III, 12.

55. See for example, Resolution on CPC History (1949-1981), 73-76; and Jiang Zemin’s speech, “The Future of Socialism
Remains as Bright as Ever,” available in Selected Works of Jiang Zemin, Volume I (Beijing: Foreign Languages
Press),327-330.

56. On the establishment of a socialist system under Mao as necessary, Xi’s 19th Party Congress report (Xi, The
Governance of China l, 15)maintains that: "It created the fundamental political conditions and the institutional
foundation for achieving all development and progress in China today.” On the possibility of falling back into
exploitation by imperialism if China abandoned its political system, see Deng Xiaoping’s 1979 speech, “Uphold the Four
Cardinal Principles,” Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping, Volume II (1975-1982) (Beijing, Foreign Languages Press, 1984),
174- 176. Similarly, Xi maintains in “Uphold and Consolidate the Party’s Ideological Leadership,” The Governance of
China // (Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 2017), 356, that:

Since the end of the Cold War, some countries, affected by Western values, have been torn apart by war or afflicted with
chaos. If we tailor our practices to Western capitalist values, measure our national development by means of the Western
capitalist evaluation system, and regard Western standards as the sole standards for development, the consequences will
be devastating—we will have to follow others slavishly at every step, or we subject ourselves to their abuse.

57. Xi’s address on the CCP’s 95th anniversary is a perfect example of this rhetoric. See Xinhua News Agency, “Xi
Jinping: Speech at the Meeting Celebrating the 95th Anniversary of the Founding of the Communist Party of China,” op cit

58. The primary stage of socialism is the idea, articulated at the 13th Party Congress in 1987, that the Maoist error
had been to try to reach advanced socialism from too weak an economic base. According to this doctrine, the PRC was
correct to have established a socialist system to restore China’s sovereignty and prevent exploitation by foreign
imperialism; however, if socialism was the primary stage of communism, the PRC was only in the primary stage of
socialism. While keeping public ownership of the mainstay of the economy, in the primary stage, the PRC could permit
diverse forms of ownership to develop productive forces until socialism could be realized on a higher plane. The primary
stage of socialism was also identified with the period, to mid-century, over which the great rejuvenation of the Chinese
nation would be realized. Zhao, Documents of the Thirteenth National Congress of the Communist Party of China (1987),
9-18. For an account of the origins of "the primary stage of socialism' see Yan Sun, The Chinese Reassessment of
Socialism, 1976-1992 (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1995), 182-213.

59. Xi, Selected Readings I, 100-101. A redacted version of this speech was published in 2013, but the full text in
Chinese was published in 2019 and an official translated (the one quoted above) in 2024. I have changed only the phrase
“national strength” to “comprehensive national power” for the phrase 综合国⼒. Of note, the Harvard University political
scientist A. Iain Johnston has criticized independent scholar Tanner Greer’s 2019 translation of a portion of this
passage, which Greer had rendered [my emphasis added]:

Most importantly, we must concentrate our efforts on bettering our own affairs, continually broadening our comprehensive
national power, improving the lives of our people, building a socialism that is superior to capitalism, and laying the
foundation for a future where we will win the initiative and have the dominant position.

TheChineseis:“最重要的，还是要集中精⼒办好⾃⼰的事情，不断壮⼤我们的综合国⼒，不断改善我们⼈⺠的⽣活，不断建设对资本主义具有优越性的社会主义，不断为我们赢得主动、赢得优势、赢得未来打下更加坚实的基础,”whichthe
official 2024 translation quoted renders as (again, emphasis added):

The most important thing is that we focus on our development to increase our national strength, improve our people’s
lives, and develop socialism that has more strengths than capitalism, so as to lay a solid foundation for us to seize
the initiative, win the competitive edge, and secure our future.

Johnston implies that U.S. policy perceptions of Beijing’s intentions were misled by Greer’s translation. This is not
convincing. The argument that the CCP sees Washington as a long-term strategic rival owing to viewing the two as locked
in a systems contest between capitalism and socialism does not rest on whether to translate 赢得优势as “dominant position”
(Greer) or “competitive edge” (official translation), or even the softest possible translation: “more favorable
position.” The text of the surrounding passage and the entire speech make Xi’s view of long-term global strategic
rivalry between capitalism and socialism unambiguous. There is also a cataract of such texts from Xi and an extensive
empirical record of Beijing’s actions to reflect them. For this dispute, see Alastair Iain Johnston, “Translation
Matters: Problems of Inference in the 2020 State Department Policy Planning Report ‘Elements of the China Challenge,’”
Center for Strategic and International Studies, February 2022,
https://interpret.csis.org/wpcontent/uploads/2022/02/Alastair-Iain-Johnston-Translation-Matters-1.pdf and Tanner Greer,
“Xi Jinping in Translation: China’s Guiding Ideology,” Palladium, May 31, 2019,

60. Xi, Selected Readings I, 94. Here, again, I have changed “national strength” to “comprehensive national power” to
clarify where the term 综合国⼒ is being used.

61. See, for example, this passage from the second question
(2. 如何理解习近平新时代中国特⾊社会主义思想创⽴的时代背景?) in the 2021 Central Propaganda Department volume Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with
Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study (noted above), 11. The translation is my edit of Google translate:

Entering the new era, the CCP Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as the core has led the whole party and the
people of all ethnic groups in the country to promote the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics and achieve
great achievements that have attracted worldwide attention, demonstrating the vitality of scientific socialism with
irrefutable facts. People are witnessing the end of the “end of history theory,” the collapse of the “coming collapse of
China theory,” and the failure of the “failure of socialism theory.” The road of socialism with Chinese characteristics
is becoming wider and wider, and more people in the world are taking Marxism seriously and believing in it. The
historical evolution and competition of the two ideologies and two social systems in the world have undergone a profound
transformation that is beneficial to Marxism and socialism. Socialism with Chinese characteristics has become the
mainstay of revitalizing world socialism.

62. “Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on the Major Achievements and Historical
Experience of the Party over the Past Century Adopted at the Sixth Plenary Session of the 19th Central Committee of the
Communist Party of China on November 11, 2021,” 59-60,
https://english.www.gov.cn/policies/latestreleases/202111/16/content_WS6193a935c6d0df57f98e50b0.html. The chapter in the
2021 Central Propaganda Department, Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study
Questions & Answers volume on "changes not seen in a century"(discussed below), 42-46 also presaged this judgment.

63. “Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on the Major Achievements and Historical
Experience of the Party over the Past Century” 62 and 23 respectively.

64. A succinct representation of this view is Rebecca E. Karl, “Xi is Not Mao: Mao and Xi’s historical projects couldn’t
be more different, and it is high time to move beyond the bad history that conflates them,” Dissent Magazine, Spring
2022, https://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/xi-is-not-mao/.

65. “Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on the Major Achievements and Historical
Experience of the Party over the Past Century.” 60.

66. Xi, Selected Readings I, 18.

67. Xi, Selected Readings I, 22.

68. On the “two combinations” see the six-part series “Series of Comments on Profoundly Understanding the Great
Significance of the ‘Two Combinations’” [深刻理解 “两个结合” 的重⼤意义系列述评], The People’s Daily, June 19-24, 2023. The first part is
at http://paper.people.com.cn/rmrb/html/2023-06/19/nw.D110000renmrb_20230619_1-02.htm

69. Xi Jinping, “Comprehensively promote the construction of a strong country and the great cause of national
rejuvenation with Chinese-style modernization” [以中国式现代化全⾯推进强国建设、⺠族复兴伟业], Seeking Truth[求是] 2025, Vol. 1, December 12,
2024, www.qstheory.cn/20241231/d21bd57c012d4d29824219effd18ca35/c.html. I am indebted to Bill
Bishop’s Sinocism newsletter for flagging this article. His full translation is available at
https://sinocism.com/p/xi-inqiushi-comprehensively-advancing.

70. The party’s expressed preferences for multipolarity are ubiquitous. See, for example, Wang Yi, “A Steadfast
Constructive Force in a Changing World,” Keynote Speech by H.E. Wang Yi At the 61st Munich Security Conference, Munich,
February 14, 2025, https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/wjbzhd/202502/t20250215_11555665.html.See also the chapter in the 2021
Central Propaganda Department, Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study
Questions & Answers volume on "changes not seen in a century," (discussed further below), 46: A Preliminary Analysis,”
Sigur Center Asia Papers #9, Sigur Center for Asian Studies, Elliott School for International Affairs, George Washington
University, 2000.

71. This phrase occurs in Odd Arne Wested, “The Sources of Chinese Conduct: Are Washington and Beijing Fighting a New
Cold War?” Foreign Affairs, September/October 2019, https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2019-08-
12/sources-chinese-conduct

72. Xi, The Governance of China III, 14 and 12 respectively. The official translation I have rendered here as “the
history of the development of human society” is “the history of human society” but the Chinese is “⼈类社会发展史.”

73. Hu Jintao (胡锦涛), “Grasp and Make Use of the Important Period of Strategic Opportunity” [“继续抓住和⽤好重要战略机会期”], October
10, 2010, in Selected Works ofHu Jintao Volume III [胡锦涛⽂选第三卷], (Beijing: People’s Publishing House, 2016), 436-441. On
the foreign policy guideline often summarized by Western scholars as “hide and bide” see Jiang Zemin, “The Present
International Situation and Our Diplomatic Work,” Selected Works of Jiang Zemin, Volume 1(Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 2012), 191-202. On "hide and bide" see also Doshi, The
Long Game, 48-49 and 58-65. On the 2014 Central Foreign Affairs Work Conference as a decisive change replacing
hide/bide, see Rudd, On Xi Jinping, 226-255.

74. The premise of “major country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics” is that Beijing needs a new diplomatic
approach to navigate the implications of its rise. This includes “new type of major country relations” (designed to
avoid colliding with another great power as it completes its rise) and “new type of international relations,” which
Beijing frames as being about “win-win cooperation” (again, primarily leveraging the diplomatic opportunities afforded
by China’s economic rise). According to Foreign Minister Wang Yi, “The new type of international relations is about what
kind of state-to-state relations China wishes to build, and the community of shared future is about what kind of world
China hopes to create.” See Wang Yi, “A year of flying colors for pursuing major-country diplomacy with Chinese
characteristics,” cited in Chen Yue and Pu Ping (transl. Niu Yunping) Volume 10: Diplomacy: Building a Community of
Shared Future for Mankind (Beijing: China Remin University Press, 2017) [New Concepts, New Ideas and New Strategies of
Xi Jinping's Thought on the Governance of China (A 10-Volume Set), 51.

75. Xi, The Governance of China II, 481.

76. For the redacted “main points” of the speech, see Xi, The Governance of China II, 479-483.

77. Xi, The Governance of China II, 569-575 and 588-601 respectively.

78. The best paper on ⼈类命运共同体 remains Liza Tobin, “Xi’s Vision for Transforming Global Governance: A Strategic Challenge
for Washington and its Allies,” Texas National Security Review 2:1 (November
2018),
https://tnsr.org/2018/11/xis-vision-for-transforming-global-governance-a-strategic-challenge-for-washingtonand-its-allies/.
On the significance of the two UN speeches, see Central Propaganda Department, A Concise History of the Chinese
Communist Party [中国共产党简史], People's Publishing House: Bejing, 2021), 449-450. See also the depiction of the origins of
“A Community of Common Destiny” in Chen Yue and Pu Ping, Volume 10: Diplomacy: Building a Community of Shared Future for
Mankind, 13-20.

79. Hu Jintao proposed his concept of a “Harmonious World” in September 2005, almost precisely a decade before Xi’s “A
Community of Common Destiny” speech, in the same venue. See Hu Jintao, “Build Towards a Harmonious World of Lasting
Peace and Common Prosperity Statement by H.E. Hu Jintao President of the People’s Republic of China At the United
Nations Summit New York,” September 15, 2005, https://www.un.org/webcast/summit2005/statements15/china050915eng.pdf.
Deng Xiaoping in 1974 also presented to the United Nations Mao Zedong’s view of international relations and arguments
for changing international economic relations in favor of the developing world (Deng did not include the speech in his
Selected Works volumes). See Deng Xiaoping, “Speech By Chairman of the Delegation of the People’s Republic of China,
Deng Xiaoping, At the Special Session of the U.N. General Assembly,” April 10, 1974,
https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/dengxiaoping/1974/04/10.htm.

80. Liza Tobin, “Xi’s Vision for Transforming Global Governance: A Strategic Challenge for Washington and its Allies,”
158.

81. The introduction to a 2019 collection of Xi’s speeches on foreign relations that contains “A Community of Common
Destiny” in the title of the volume begins:

Since ancient times, the Chinese nation has upheld the belief that “all under Heaven are of one family” and has
advocated the ideas of peace among all nations and harmony under Heaven. The Communist Party of China (CPC) regards
making new and greater contributions to humanity as its abiding mission. Since the CPC’s 18th National Congress in
November 2012, Xi Jinping has called for the building of human community with a shared future.

See the “Editor’s Note,” on the first of two unnumbered pages prior to page i inXi Jinping, On Building a Human
Community with a Shared Future, (Beijing: Central Compilation and Translation Press, 2019).

82. Both Nadege Rolland in a seminal study of the PRC’s global vision and Andrew Nathan and Zhang Boshu note versions of
this contradiction. Rolland talks about the difficulty of promoting Chinese exceptionalism and desiring to offer a
universal model. Nathan and Zhang identify the contradiction between “equality and hierarchy” in Beijing’s vision for “A
Community of Common Destiny.” See respectively Nadège Rolland, “China’s Vision for a New World Order” National Bureau of
Asian Research, NBR Special Report #83, January 2020,
https://www.nbr.org/wpcontent/uploads/pdfs/publications/sr83_chinasvision_jan2020.pdf and Andrew J. Nathan & Boshu
Zhang, “A Shared Future for Mankind’: Rhetoric and Reality in Chinese Foreign Policy under Xi Jinping,” Journal of
Contemporary China, 31:133 (2022), 57-71, DOI: 10.1080/10670564.2021.1926091.

83. See the discussion and notes in Daniel Tobin, “How Xi Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s
Ambitions,” 15-18. Chen Yue and Pu Ping, Volume 10: Diplomacy: Building a Community of Shared Future or Mankind, 20-23
also explitly ink"A Community of Common Destiny"s conceptual origins with tianxia. Tsang and Cheung, in their chapter on
“A Community of Common Destiny” in The Political Thought of Xi Jinping, 169-193, also link “A Community of Common
Destiny” to tianxia and argue that Beijing’s ultimate aim is a unipolar order with itself as the center rather than the
multipolar order it presently favors over a US-led order. Yet their account of “A Community of Common Destiny” is
obscured by grafting on their five point account of Xi Jinping Thought, which does not map onto it.

84. For a valuable overview of contemporary PRC-based scholars writings on Tianxia, see Liang Zhiping [梁治平], “Imagining
‘Tianxia’: Building Ideology in Contemporary China,” [想象’天下’： 当代中国的意识形态建构] David Ownby (trans.), 思想 36 (Dec. 2018):
71-177, readingthechinadream.com/liangzhiping-tianxia-and-ideology.html. For a skeptical view of the historical practice
of tianxia, see June Teufel Dreyer (2015) “The ‘Tianxia Trope’: will China change the international system?” Journal of
Contemporary China, 24:96, 1015- 1031, https://doi.org/10.1080/10670564.2015.1030951

85. Daniel Tobin, “How Xi Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s Ambitions,” 17.

86. See, for example Li Huailiang [李怀亮] and Diao Shenghu [刁⽣⻁], “Promoting the building of a community with a shared
future for mankind is a vivid practice of ‘two combinations’” [推动构建⼈类命运共同体是 “两个结合” 的⽣动实践], The People’s Daily [⼈⺠⽇报],
April 20, 2024, http://paper.people.com.cn/rmlt/html/2024- 04/20/content_26070961.htm. The authors directly invite the
Book of Rites tianxia quote when describing “A Community of Common Destiny” as an example of combining fine traditional
Chinese culture with Marxism. The authors are respectively, “the dean, professor and doctoral supervisor of the
Institute of Community with a Shared Future for Humankind, Communication University of China; professor of the School of
Humanities, Communication University of China, and special researcher and doctoral supervisor of the Beijing Research
Center for Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era.”

87. Xi, The Governance ofChina II 488.

88. National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Ministry of Commerce of the People’s
Republic of China, “Full text: Action plan on the Belt and Road Initiative,” Mar 30,2015,
https://english.www.gov.cn/archive/publications/2015/03/30/content_281475080249035.htm

89. Daniel Tobin, “How Xi Jinping’s ‘New Era’ Should Have Ended U.S. Debate on Beijing’s Ambitions,” 17 n 78. On the
early history of BRI, see Nadège Rolland, “Eurasian Integration ‘a la Chinese’: Deciphering Beijing’s Vision for the
Region as a ‘Community of Common Destiny,’” The Asan Forum, June 5, 2017,
https://theasanforum.org/eurasian-integration-ala-chinese-deciphering-beijings-vision-for-the-region-as-a-community-of-common-destiny/.
For the language on BRI as a platform, see Chapter V in State Council Information Office, “White Paper: A Global
Community of Shared Future: China’s Proposals and Actions,” September 2023, a bilingual edition of which is available
at: http://www.china.org.cn/chinese/2023-12/21/content_116731539.htm.

90. Nadia Clark, “The Rise and Fall of the BRI,” Council on Foreign Relations, April 6, 2023,
https://www.cfr.org/blog/riseand-fall-bri

91. Two valuable works on the how Beijing is utilizing this approach in the digital domain are Emily de La Bruyère, Doug Strub, and Jonathon Marek, eds., “China’s Digital Ambitions: A Global Strategy to Supplant the Liberal Order,” National Bureau of Asian Research, NBR Special Report No. 97, March 2022, China’s Digital Ambitions: A Global Strategy to Supplant the Liberal Order | The National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR) and David Dorman and John Hemmings, “Digital China Wins the Future: How Xi Jinping Engineered the World’s First Digital Grand Strategy, Transformed China’s Path to National Rejuvenation, and Refined the Future of Great Power Competition,” Pacific Forum, 2023, https://pacforum.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/IssuesandInsights_VOL23_WP2.pdf.

92. An excellent account of Beijing’s retooling of BRI and persistent ambitions for BRI is Bradley C. Parks, et al.,
Belt and Road Reboot: Bejing's Bid to De-Risk ts Global Infrastructure Inititive. iliamsburg, VA: AidData at Wiliam &
Mary. November 6, 2023, https://www.aiddata.org/publications/belt-and-road-reboot. See also Xi Jinping, “Keynote Speech
by H.E. Xi Jinping President of the People’s Republic of China At the Opening Ceremony Of the Third Belt and Road Forum
for International Cooperation October 18, 2023,”
http://www.beltandroadforum.org/english/n101/2023/1018/c124-1175.html.

93. Xi, The Governance of China III, 21. Note that this sentence is extremely straightforward about how these concepts
are connected to one another. New type major country relations is the policy guideline, which seeks to foster new type
international relations (how the PRC relates to individual countries) and build a “A Community of Common Destiny” (its
vision for the world as a whole).

94. Xi, The Governance of China III, 26, 62, and 65 respectively. Most recent official translation renders it “a global
community of shared future” rather than “a community of common destiny” as I have employed in this paper. The original
official English translation of the 19th Party Congress report rendered it “a community with a shared future for
mankind.”

95. Among other recent examples, Xi invoked changes not seen in a century when meeting Thailand’s prime minister in
early February 2025. See Ministry of Foreign Affairs, “Xi Jinping Meets Thai Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra
[习近平会⻅泰国总理佩通坦], February 6, 2025,
https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/web/wjdt_674879/gjldrhd_674881/202502/t20250206_11550000.shtml

96. Central Propaganda Department, Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study
Questions & Answers cited above, 105-106.

97. The argument about norm-setting in new domains is articulated in Xi’s 2016 speech to a Politburo study session on
global governance and in several speeches to leading Chinese scientists over his tenure as general secretary. For the
former, see Xi, The Governance of China II, 487-490 and for the latter, see, for example, Xi, The Governance of China
11, 287-298.

98. The most authoritative depiction of the meaning of “changes not seen in a century” is Central Propaganda Department,
Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era Study Questions & Answers, Question #8,"The
world is undergoing major changes unseen in a century. What are these changes?" [世界正经历百年未有之⼤变局, 变在何处?], 42-46. See also,
Doshi, The Long Game, 261-276.

99. In this note, the Chinese phrases in parenthesis are taken from the Chinese editions of the same volumes. The page
references in the note refer to the English editions. At a 2016 Politburo study session on global governance, Xi called
for the PRC to “actively participate in global governance” (我们要积极参与全球治理): Xi, The Governance of China II, 488. At the
19th Party Congress, he called for the PRC to “take an active part in reforming and developing the global governance
system, and keep contributing Chinese wisdom and strength to global governance” ( 积极参与全球治理体系改⾰和建设, 不断贡献中国智慧和⼒量): Xi, The
Governance of China III, 64. At the 2018 Central Foreign Affairs Work Conference, he called for “steering reform of the
global governance system to promote greater equity and justice” (坚持以公平正义为理念引领全球治理体系改⾰): Xi, The Governance of China III,
496.

100. “Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on the Major Achievements and Historical
Experience of the Party over the Past Century,” 57.

101. “Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on the Major Achievements and Historical
Experience of the Party over the Past Century,” 60.

102. Xi, Selected Readings I, 23. The word “global” is added in the English translation, but the Chinese version simply
contains the standard Chinese phrase for “A Community of Common Destiny.”

103. This point is echoed in the externally facing (and thus intended to shape global opinion) white paper published in
September 2023. See State Council Information Office, “A Global Community of Shared Future: China’s Proposals and
Actions,” September 26, 2023, https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202309/26/content_WS6512703dc6d0868f4e8dfc37.html.

104. On the global initiatives, see Michael Schuman, Jonathan Fulton, and Tuvia Gering, “How Beijng’s newest global
initiatives seek to remake the world order” The Atlantic Council, Washington, DC, June 21, 2023,
https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-reports/issue-brief/how-beijings-newest-global-initiatives-seek-toremake-the-world-order/.
On the bureaucratic institutionalization of the BRI lagging its formal proclamation and promotion by Xi Jinping by
years, see Ryan Manual, “Twists in the Belt and Road,” China Leadership Monitor, Fall 2019 (Issue 61), September 1,
2019, https://www.prcleader.org/_files/ugd/10535f_60ed8e44eba14dffb628131596fdd408.pdf.

105. Although not footnoted in the official translation, this is a reference to the Confucian text, The Doctrine of the
Mean《中庸》and occurs in its 30th chapter. The Chinese quote is: 万物并育而不相害，道并行而不相悖.

106. Xi, Selected Readings I, 65.

107. Xi, “Comprehensively promote the construction of a strong country and the great cause of national rejuvenation with
Chinese-style modernization,” op. cit. The translation is my edit of Google Translate.

108. See, for example, New Language (a pseudonym) [是说新语], “Building a Community with a Shared Future for Humankind is
the Core Concept of Xi Jinping’s Diplomatic Thought”
[构建⼈类命运共同体是习近平外交思想的核⼼理念],
Seeking Truth [求是], 09 December 2024, http:/www.qstheory.cn/laigao/ycjx/2024-12/09/c_1130225672.htm.

109. I have followed Beijing’s standard translation here, but “Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy” is not a good
translation. A better one would be “Xi Jinping Thought on Foreign Relations.“ The former suggests the content is on how
diplomats should conduct themselves when it is actually about what kind of foreign relations the PRC should have.

110. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, “The Central Conference on Work Relating to Foreign Affairs Was Held in Beijing: Xi
Jinping Delivered an Important Address at the Conference,” December 28, 2023,
https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/zxxx_662805/202312/t20231228_11214416.html.

111. Xi, The Governance of China III, 92. This is in the context of extolling the implications of China’s success for
world socialism. The Chinese is clearer than the official translation, and might be better rendered: “We must realize
that this new era is a new era of socialism with Chinese characteristics, not any other new era”
(这个新时代是中国特⾊社会主义新时代，⽽不是别的什么新时代).

# THE ASAN INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES

Online ISSN 2288-5757

$\circledcirc$ Copyright The Asan Forum Limited. All Rights Reserved.

# Asan Family Site